ALL RIGHT,
WELCOME TO THE TWENTY TO
SEPTEMBER TWENTY TWENTY TWO
REGULAR MEETING WITHOUT OUR
PLANNING PERMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON OUR
MEETING PROCEDURES, PLEASE
REVIEW THE FULL PRINTED MEETING
AGENDA THAT IS PROVIDED.
MR. LEINERT, WILL YOU CALL THE
ROYAL COMMISSION TO GIVE BRANDL
PRESENT COMMISSIONER RAYBURN&apos;S
COMMISSIONER SO THAT HERE
COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
COMMISSIONER DISH COMMISSIONER
HERE, COMMISSIONER CLARK YEAH
COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; WHICH HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM
OF SIX BUT FOR THE REMINDER TO
THE COMMISSION THE MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC IT TAKE REQUIRES
SIX AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO
ADVANCE ANY PETITION.
ALL RIGHT, THANK YOU.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA WHICH IS ITEM
NUMBER THREE MAY HAVE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE AGENDA.
I MOVED BY CHRISTOPHER LEE,
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ANDY
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION.
&gt;&gt; SO B AUTHORITY SORRY TOO
MANY TO SORRY ABOUT ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION.
PLEASE SAY I PASSES OK, WE WILL
GO ON TO ITEM NUMBER FOUR WHICH
IS MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS
MEETING WE HAVE TO MEETING
MINUTES.
I HOPE YOU ALL HAD A CHANCE TO
LOOK AT THEM.
IS IT ALL RIGHT IF WE TAKE
THOSE TOGETHER?
ALL RIGHT.
CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER SAUVé ANY
DISCUSSION?
NONE.
ALL RIGHT, EVERYBODY VOTE
PLEASE.
CAPACITY&apos;S ALL RIGHT NOW WE ARE
UP TO ITEM NUMBER FIVE WHICH IS
REPORTS FROM CITY
ADMINISTRATION, CITY COUNCIL
PLANNING MANAGER PLANNING
COMMISSION AND OFFICERS AND
OTHER COMMITTEES.
LOOKS LIKE WE DO NOT HAVE OUR
CITY COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVE BUT
PERHAPS MR LEONARD COULD KICK
US SHORE AT CITY COUNCIL LAST
EVENING THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT FOR TWENTY FOUR
TWENTY FOUR E STADIUM WAS
APPROVED AS WELL AS BOTH THE
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT ZONING
AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL FOR
THREE FORTY DEPOT THOSE ALL
THOSE WERE PASSED LAST
EVENING&apos;S AGENDA AND I HAVE NO
ADDITIONAL PLANNING MANAGER
REPORT RECEIVING ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONER OFFICERS OR
LIAISONS WOULD LIKE TO REPORT
ANYTHING.
NO NEED TO REPORT ANYTHING.
ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM NUMBER
SIX WHICH IS PUBLIC COMMENT AND
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED ON THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AGENDA FOR TONIGHT.
WELL, FIRST CALL IN INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE IF YOU AIM FOR THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
877 EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND AN OUR MEETING
ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX TO A
MUTE PRESS STAR SIX CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME YOU WILL HEAR
AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT
THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO
SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUND
SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO KICK US OFF?
NOBODY PRESENT.
OK, MR. LEONARD.
ANYBODY VIRTUALLY WAITING IN
LINE NO SPEAKERS INDICATING
RAISE YOUR HAND.
OK, I WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM
NUMBER SEVEN WHICH IS PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS
MEETING.
&gt;&gt; NO NEW SCHEDULED PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR THE REGULARLY
SCHEDULED BUSINESS MEETING.
&gt;&gt; OK, THAT&apos;S A SURPRISE.
ALRIGHTY THEN WE WILL MOVE ON
TO ITEM NUMBER EIGHT WHICH IS A
REGULAR BUSINESS.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL START WITH THE THE
REDEEMER AND OUR OVERSIGHT PLAN
AND SPECIAL EXEMPTION USED FOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION WITH
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATIONS OF FIVE
TWENTY NINE DETROIT STREET
WHICH ADDRESSES FIVE TWENTY ONE
AND FIVE TWENTY NINE DETROIT
ST. PROJECT NUMBER SEIYU TWENTY
ONE DASH 006 AND HESP TWENTY
ONE DASH ZERO FOUR FIVE.
SO LET&apos;S SEE
BY WAY
OF INTRODUCTION THIS WILL BE A
PROPOSAL TO RESTORE AND ADD ONE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
FOURTEEN SQUARE FOOT ADDITION
TO FIVE TWENTY FIVE DETROIT
STREET AND REU
FIVE TWENTY ONE
DETROIT ST. WOLANSKI
MODIFICATION IS REQUESTED FOR
RELIEF FROM THE CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFER REQUIREMENT
ALONG THE NORTH BOUNDARY WHERE
THE DRIVEWAY IS LOCATED.
THIS SPECIAL EXEMPTION USE
PETITION REQUIRES RELIGIOUS
ASSEMBLY USE FOR THE PARCEL AT
FIVE TWENTY NINE DETROIT WHICH
INCLUDES TWENTY FIVE AND FIVE
TWENTY ONE DETROIT ST. LOCATED
IN A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL
PARTY SO WE HAVE UP TO TEN
MINUTES FOR A PETITIONER
PRESENTATION AND AFTER THAT
WE&apos;LL HAVE A STAFF PRESENTATION
IS GOING TO BE REMOTE OR IN
PERSON.
IN PERSON.
ALL RIGHT.
MY NAME IS GARY COOPER.
I&apos;M AN ARCHITECT WITH COOPER
DESIGN HERE IN TOWN AND I&apos;M
REPRESENTING REDEEMER ANN ARBOR
WHICH IS THE CHURCH THAT IS
PROPOSING THE RENOVATION, THE
BUILDING.
YOU ALL KNOW IT WAS THE FORMER
TREASURER OUTSIDE THE BUILDING
WAS ORIGINALLY BUILT IN 1869
AND IT WAS A PLANNING MILL AND
LATER IT PRODUCED DOORS AND
WINDOWS AND DIFFERENT RUNNING
TRIM.
IT HAD VARIOUS USES OVER THE
YEARS.
THERE WERE VARIOUS OTHER
BUILDINGS ON THE SITE.
THERE WERE BARNS AND STORAGE
BUILDINGS.
IT WAS A FURNITURE STORE AT ONE
TIME IT WAS A FRUIT AND
VEGETABLE WAREHOUSE AND
SHIPPING AREA ALSO THE CHURCH
MART OCCUPIED THE BUILDING FROM
1961 UNTIL I BELIEVE 2020 WHEN
THEY SOLD THE PROPERTY UP FOR
SALE AND IT WAS PURCHASED BY
REDEEMER.
WE ARE PROPOSING TO RESTORE AND
AND REHABILITATE EXISTING
BUILDING.
I&apos;LL TALK ABOUT THE ADDITIONS
IN A MINUTE.
MAYBE WE CAN LOOK AT THE SITE,
PLAN A LITTLE MORE DETAIL THE
NEXT SLIDE HAS AN ENLARGED SITE
PLAN SO THE CIRCULAR CAN WORK
SIMILAR TO THE WAY IT IS NOW
THAT YOU ENTER BETWEEN THE
HOUSE AND THE CHURCH FROM OUR
BUILDING AND YOU GO DOWN A
LEVEL OR APPROXIMATELY THREE
QUARTERS OF A LEVEL TO A
PARKING AREA.
WE&apos;RE PROVIDING SEVENTEEN
PARKING SPACES TOTAL.
WE&apos;RE ALSO PICKING UP ALL THE
STORMWATER IN A INFILTRATION
BED AND THEN PASSES ON TO THE
STORM SEWER SYSTEM IN DETROIT
STREET.
WE&apos;VE GOT ALL THE YELLOW SHADED
PARKING SPACES IN THE BACK ARE
EITHER SCHEDULED TO BE
ELECTRIFIED WITH ELECTRIC
CHARGING OR TO BE WIRED FOR
FUTURE ELECTRIC ELECTRIC
CHARGING.
THE BUILDING WILL HAVE TWO
ENTRANCES ONE OFF THE REAR
WHICH WILL BE A BARRIER FREE
ENTRANCE WHICH IS RIGHT
ADJACENT TO THE REAR PARKING
AREA.
AND THEN THERE&apos;S A FRONT DOOR
ENTRANCE OF DETROIT STREET ON
THE NORTH NORTHEAST CORNER.
THE PROPOSAL IS TO MAINTAIN THE
HOUSE AS IT PRESENTLY IS WHICH
IS I BELIEVE FOUR RENTAL UNITS
AND THEY&apos;RE ALL OCCUPIED AT
SOME POINT IN THE FUTURE.
THE THE CHURCH MAY WANT TO USE
SOME OF THAT BUILDING FOR
CHURCH USES BUT THAT&apos;S TO BE
DETERMINED.
THE PLAN IS TO RENOVATE THE
EXISTING BUILDING WHICH IS
THREE LEVELS A LOWER LEVEL
WHICH IS APPROXIMATELY HALF A
LEVEL BELOW GRADE FIRST FLOOR
LEVEL AND A SECOND FLOOR LEVEL
WHICH WE PROPOSE TO EXPAND THE
MAIN BUILDING A IS THE HISTORIC
BRICK BUILDING WHICH YOU YOU
SEE FROM THE STREET WHICH
FRONTS DETROIT STREET AND THEN
THERE IS A SERIES OF ADDITIONS
ON THE REAR OF THE BUILDING AND
THOSE EDITIONS HAVE CHANGED
OVER TIME THEY WENT FROM BEING
WOOD FRAMED BRICK FRAME TO
CONCRETE BLOCK AND AND SO THEY
ARE NOT HISTORICALLY
SIGNIFICANT.
HOWEVER, WE ARE KEEPING THE
MAIN ADDITIONS ON THE BACK
WHICH IS A STAIR STAIR LOBBY
THAT GOES THROUGH ALL THREE
FLOORS.
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING TO RECONSTRUCT
WHAT THEY CALLED THE OFFICE
EDITION WHICH IS IN THE
NORTHWEST CORNER AND THAT&apos;S
JUST DUE TO THE CONDITION
OF THE BUILDING.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S GOT FOUR FOUNDATIONS.
THE BRICK WALLS ARE FAILING AND
WE REPLACE THAT IN THE SAME
FOOTPRINT THAT IT IS NOW.
WE&apos;RE ALSO PROPOSING TO THEN
ADD 250 SQUARE FOOT ENTRY STAIR
LOBBY WHICH WOULD BE THE
ENTRANCE OFF OF THE NEW
ENTRANCE HALF OF DETROIT STREET
.
SO YOU WOULD ENTER ON THE NORTH
SIDE AND ENTER THE STAIR LOBBY
AND THEN YOU&apos;D HAVE ACCESS TO
THE UPPER FLOORS WHILE THE
BUILDING WE&apos;RE ADDING I THINK A
TOTAL OF THIRTEEN HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET OF ADDITIONAL
SPACE.
WE&apos;RE ONLY INCREASING THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE BUILDING BY
TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY SQUARE
FEET WHICH IS THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE THE ENTRY TOWER.
THE REMAINING ADDITIONS WILL BE
ABOVE THE ONE STOREY ADDITIONS
THAT ARE EXISTING AT THE REAR
WHICH IS BASICALLY THE
NORTHWEST CORNER.
THE CHURCH PROPOSES TO USE THE
BASEMENT AS A FELLOWSHIP HALL
FOR DINNERS AND AFTER SERVICE
EVENTS.
THE MAIN FLOOR IS A
MULTIPURPOSE SPACE POSSIBLY
WITH A NURSERY CHURCH OFFICES
THINGS LIKE THAT.
THE UPPER FLOOR IS THE WORSHIP
SPACE WHICH HAS A LITTLE BIT
TALLER CEILING AND ALL WILL BE
ACCESSIBLE THROUGH A NEW
ELEVATOR OR THE ENTRY STAIR
TOWER AND THEN IN THE REAR
STAIR WHICH EXISTING WE&apos;RE
HERE.
LET ME GO ON TO THE NEXT NEXT
SLIDE.
I GUESS THIS HARD TO READ
DRAWINGS THAT IT&apos;S NOT RENDERED
BUT THAT&apos;S A PLAN AT THE LOWER
LEVEL WHICH ACCESSES THE BACK
PARKING WHERE THERE&apos;S A MAIN
ENTRY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE FIRST
FLOOR WHICH HAS A NEW STAIR
ENTRY AND ENTERS OFF OF DETROIT
STREET NEXT SLIDE AND THESE ARE
SOME 3D RENDERINGS AND WE&apos;VE
TAKEN THE TREES OUT BECAUSE THE
TREES WOULD HAVE SCARED TOO
MUCH OF THE BUILDING TO BE ABLE
TO SEE.
&gt;&gt; BUT YOU SEE ON THE RIGHT THE
DARK COLORED ADDITION FOR THE
STAIR TOWER YOU SEE ON THE LEFT
THE ORIGINAL BUILDING AND WE
PROPOSED TO RESTORE ALL THE
WINDOW OPENINGS AND DOOR
OPENINGS.
A LOT OF THE CURRENT WINDOWS
WERE ORIGINALLY DOORS SERVICE
DOORS.
WE WOULD REPLACE THE DOORS WE
WOULD REPLACE AND RECONFIGURE
THE WINDOWS TO THE ORIGINAL
CONDITION AND THEN WE WOULD
BUILD OUR SECOND FLOOR TO FLOOR
ADDITION ON THE BACK THAT YOU
SEE SEE ON THE RIGHT NEXT SLIDE
AND YOU CAN SEE HERE FROM THE
SOUTHEAST THE DRIVE ENTERING
OF DETROIT ST. GOING DOWN
BEHIND THE THE BUILDING WHERE
THE PARKING MAINLY IS AGAIN
WE&apos;D RESTORED THE CORNICE ON
THE FRONT, REPAIR THE BRICK AND
MODIFY THE OPENINGS IN THIS
ELEVATION AND THE NEXT VERSION
AND THIS WOULD BE FROM THE
SOUTHWEST AND THAT WOULD BE THE
REAR ENTRY THAT ENTERS IN
BETWEEN BASEMENT FIRST FLOOR
LEVEL AND ALLOWS YOU TO MOVE UP
THROUGH ALL THREE LEVELS OF THE
BUILDING.
AND THIS IS ALSO THE BARRIER
FREE ENTRANCE AND THE BUILDING
ON THE LEFT IS A RECONSTRUCTED
OFFICE PORTION OF THE BUILDING
WHICH IS NOW THREE STORIES AS
WELL.
WE&apos;LL BE HERE WITH ANY
QUESTIONS FOR ANY QUESTIONS YOU
MIGHT HAVE.
THE TEAM IS HERE, THE
CONSTRUCTION MANAGER, THE
OWNER, THE CIVIL ENGINEER.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE A STAFF PRESENTATION.
YES.
HELLO, I&apos;M JILL FETCHER, CITY
PLANNER.
VERY QUICKLY JUST TWO LITTLE
THINGS.
ONE IS THAT THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION APPROVED
THIS IN AUGUST OF TWENTY TWENTY
ONE AND THEY&apos;RE VERY
APPRECIATIVE OF THE VAST AMOUNT
OF RESTORATION EFFORTS THAT
WOULD GO INTO THIS THIS PLAN
AND IF THEY WERE THEY WERE VERY
RELIEVED TO SEE THAT BUILDING
WOULD BE REUSED IN AN
APPROPRIATE WAY.
THE ONLY OTHER THING IS THAT
UNDER STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS I
DO HAVE TO CLARIFY THAT THE
MOTION DOES NOT HAVE A
CONDITION OF APPROVAL BUT I
SAID IN THE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION THAT IT SHOULD
BE APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS.
I&apos;M GOING TO STRIKE THAT FROM
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS.
I JUST DIDN&apos;T DO THAT IN TIME
BECAUSE THERE ARE SOME THINGS
THAT THEY NEED TO CLEAN UP ON
THE SITE PLAN THAT CODE CHANGE
RELATED BUT EVERYTHING THAT
THEY&apos;RE PROPOSING MEETS CODE .
SO CURRENT CODE TODAY&apos;S CODE SO
NONE OF THAT IS SUBSTANTIVE AND
I&apos;VE ALREADY TALKED TO THEM.
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO MAKE THE
CHANGES.
SO IT&apos;S VERY MINOR OTHER THAN
THAT THE STAFF FINDS THAT IT
MEETS ALL APPLICABLE
DEVELOPMENT AND SPECIAL
EXCEPTION NEW STANDARDS AND I
RECOMMEND APPROVAL.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THE PHOTOS OR THE
IMAGES AND THINGS LIKE THAT
THAT YOU INCLUDED IN THE STAFF
REPORT ABOUT THE HISTORY THAT
WAS THAT WAS REALLY INTERESTING
ALREADY WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION OF THIS
.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS PROJECT.
WE&apos;LL FIRST CALL AN INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
THEN OUR MEETING IS NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS
TO RAISE THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR YOUR PHONE
NUMBER YOU&apos;LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY BUT EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME?
COME ON A THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; OH GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
MY NAME IS DAVID SANTA CROCE.
MY WIFE AND I LIVE AT FIVE OH
NINE DETROIT STREET WHICH IS
TWO DOORS DOWN FROM THE HOUSE
AND THREE FROM THE TREASURER
MARK, I ATTENDED THE COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION MEETING.
WE ALSO OWNED A HOUSE FIVE
TWENTY SIX NORTH FIFTY BUT THE
BACK OF THIS OF THE WHERE THE
PROPOSED CHURCHES I JUST RAN
OUT IN THE RAIN DOWN THE STREET
TO SAY I LOVE THIS PROJECT.
THIS THIS BUILDING IS A I&apos;M
GOING TO MISS THE TREASURE AND
IT&apos;S NOT A NEAPOLITAN PIZZA
PLACE SERVING ESPRESSO BUT
THESE PEOPLE HAVE ALL BEEN
WONDERFUL TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THEY&apos;VE BEEN SUPER INFORMATIVE.
THEY&apos;RE REALLY GOING TO MAKE
THIS BUILDING SHINE THE WAY IT
USED TO.
I THINK IT&apos;S A VERY IMPORTANT
BUILDING HISTORICALLY AND I&apos;M
ENTHUSIASTIC THAT THEY GET IT
DONE AND GET IT BUILT.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
THANK YOU, SIR.
ANYBODY ELSE IN THE ROOM THAT
I&apos;D LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS
PROJECT
?
OK, WELL LET&apos;S MOVE ON TO ANY
FOLKS WAITING IN LINE.
&gt;&gt; VIRTUALLY NO SPEAKERS HAVE
EXPRESSED A DESIRE TO ADDRESS
THE QUESTION OK ALREADY WELL I
WILL READ THE MOTION AND THERE
ARE TWO BECAUSE I THINK BECAUSE
WE HAVE THE SEAL OF APPROVAL
OF A SITE PLAN AND THEN YOU
ALSO APPROVE OF A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE FOR THE PROPOSED
USE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, ALREADY SO THE I WILL
READ THE MOTION HERE THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVES
THE REDEEMER AND OVERSIGHT PLAN
WITH LANDSCAPE MODIFICATIONS TO
ALLOW THE ELIMINATION
OF CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
ALONG THE NORTHEAST PROPERTY
LINE AS IT COMPLIES WITH ALL
APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS A
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE AND
OTHER PICKLEBALL, APPLICABLE
LAWS, ORDINANCES, STANDARDS AND
REGULATIONS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS.
ALL PARCELS MUST BE COMBINED
BEFORE ISSUANCE OF BUILDING
PERMITS AND THE SECOND MOTION
IS THE UNIVERSITY PLANNING
COMMISSION.
AFTER HEARING ALL INTERESTED
PERSONS AND REVIEWING ALL
RELEVANT INFORMATION INCLUDING
AN ACCOMPANYING SITE PLAN FINDS
THE PETITION SUBSTANTIALLY
MISSED THE CHANCE THAT THE
STANDARDS IN CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT FIVE POINT D SPECIAL
EXCEPTIONS AND THEREFORE
APPROVES THE REDEEMER AND A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USED FOR
RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY.
THIS APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS ONE THE
PROPOSED USE WILL BE CONSISTENT
WITH OUR FORESEE MULTIPLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT WHICH
PROVIDES FOR RESIDENTIAL USE
INCLUDING SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
FOR RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY.
THE PROPOSED USE WILL NOT
ADVERSELY IMPACT TRAFFIC
PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLISTS,
CIRCULATION OR ROAD
INTERSECTIONS BASED ON THE
LOCATION.
DETROIT STREET PROVIDES ACCESS
TO THE SITE AND THE PROPOSED
USE IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
EXISTING AND OTHER SURROUNDING
USES TRAFFIC IMPACT AND THREE A
SITE PLAN DOCUMENTING THE
EXISTING AND PROPOSED
CONDITIONS AT THE SITE HAS BEEN
SUBMITTED AS PART OF THIS
APPLICATION ALREADY.
THAT WAS THE MOTION MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND SECONDED
BY MR WHITECHURCH.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER MILLS, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANTED TO NOTE FOR
EVERYONE THAT IN ADDITION TO
THE PUBLIC COMMENT THAT WE GOT
HERE, WE ALSO GOT A NUMBER
OF LETTERS IN OUR PACKET
INCLUDING IT SEEMS LIKE AND
THIS IS JUST MAKING SURE THAT
I&apos;M GETTING MY BEARINGS RIGHT
ONE FROM THE NEIGHBOR TO THE
NORTH WHERE THE CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFER WE ARE WAIVING
IS THAT RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; ONE CORRECTION SHE ACTUALLY
WROTE BACK AND SAID SHE&apos;S THE
NEIGHBOR TO THE SOUTH.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO IT&apos;S NOT LIKE AN
OVERSIGHT.
OK, BUT I&apos;M GLAD THAT THAT IS
NOW CLARIFIED FOR EVEN SO ALL
OF THESE ARE LARGELY IN FAVOR
AND HAVING SPENT A LOT OF TIME
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD INCLUDING
ON THE BACK SIDE, I DON&apos;T KNOW
THAT DIRECTLY ON THE BACK SIDE
BUT I AGREE THAT SEEMS LIKE A
GREAT PROJECT THAT IS GOING TO
BE A BENEFIT FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I THINK THIS
IS THE THING THAT I WOULD MAYBE
REGULARLY SAY WHEN WE&apos;RE
LOOKING AT SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USES PARTICULARLY FOR RELIGIOUS
ASSEMBLIES THAT THE EXTENT TO
WHICH WE CAN THINK ABOUT
PROGRAMING THAT SITE TO NOT
JUST BE A YOU KNOW, A COUPLE
HOUR A WEEK ACTIVITY.
I&apos;M REALLY INTERESTED IN USING
THAT PARKING LOT AND AND MAKING
THAT KIND OF A VIBRANT SPACE.
I&apos;M NOT SURE IF THERE&apos;S IF
THERE&apos;S DISCUSSION ABOUT KIND
OF WHAT PROGRAMING HAPPENS
THERE THROUGHOUT THE WEEK.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S NOT NECESSARILY AN
ARCHITECTURE QUESTION BUT
RESPOND TO THAT.
YEAH, I THINK OF A GREAT IF
THERE&apos;S ANY PLANS FOR THAT JUST
THE WE&apos;VE GOT SOME SENSE
OF WELL SOME OF THAT IS IN THE
FUTURE.
I MEAN CURRENTLY WE ALLOW
ZINGERMAN&apos;S EMPLOYEES TO PARK
THERE.
THEY HAVE DURING THE ENTIRE
TIME THAT WE HAVE WHO HAVE
OWNED THE PROPERTY AND SO WE
WILL DEFINITELY BE AIMED AT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WE LAST YEAR AND
THIS YEAR AGAIN WE HAVE LEE
FREKING PROJECTS FOR OLDER
RESIDENTS AND THAT SEEMS
APPROPRIATE FOR THE FOR THE
SITUATION.
WE WILL BE ALERT TO OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES TO I MEAN WE&apos;RE
HERE FOR THE CITY NOT JUST FOR
THOSE WHO ATTEND CHURCH THAT IS
DECIDED PURPOSE AND WE WILL BE
ALERT TO OPPORTUNITIES AS THEY
EMERGE TO TO ANSWER THAT CALL.
&gt;&gt; GREAT.
THANK YOU.
I&apos;M LIKE I SAID, I THINK THAT
THIS WILL BE A GREAT ADDITION.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé, HAVE A
QUESTION FOR STAFF.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYTHING THAT WE
NEED TO AMEND BASED ON THE
COMMENT ABOUT CONDITIONS FROM
THE MOTION?
&gt;&gt; NO, THE MOTION IS CORRECT
AND THEN I HAVE A QUESTION THE
PETITIONERS I HEARD PARKING FOR
ZINGERMAN&apos;S BUT AND I
UNDERSTAND THAT THIS HAS BEEN A
PROCESS FOR OVER A YEAR AND IN
THAT TIME WE&apos;VE REMOVED PARKING
REQUIREMENTS AND SO I AM
CURIOUS ABOUT THE CURRENT
PARKING CONFIGURATION AND IF
THERE&apos;S ANY OTHER FUTURE PLANS
WHERE PARKING MAY NOT BE
REQUIRED BECOME A CITIZEN
PARTICIPANT PARTICIPATION
SURVEY WAS LIKE A SURVEY ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY ADJACENT
PARKING SPACES THROUGHOUT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD I UNDERSTOOD SOME
SPACES WERE REALLY HELPFUL FOR
ANYBODY COMING TO THE SITE BUT
IS THERE ANY PLANS MAYBE THIS
IS MY HOPEFUL WISH TO SEE LESS
IN PERVIOUS PAVEMENT IN THE
FUTURE AND UPDATED PLAN FOR ANY
OTHER PROGRAM?
YES, THERE&apos;S LIKE A SMALL KID
AREA IN THE CORNER AND THINGS
LIKE THAT SO I&apos;M NOT SURE IF
ANYTHING THAT&apos;S BEEN CONSIDERED
OR UNDERSTOOD NOW THAT WE DON&apos;T
HAVE PARKING MINIMUM REQUIRED
FOR THE PROJECT.
MY NAME&apos;S JERRY.
I&apos;M FROM WASHTENAW ENGINEERING.
SO IF YOU AS GARY MENTIONED ON
THE SITE PLAN THERE&apos;S BEEN
ORANGE LINE THAT INDICATES
STORMWATER INFILTRATE AND SO
THAT&apos;S PROBABLY MORE EFFECTIVE
THAN IMPERVIOUS OR PERVIOUS
PAVEMENT BECAUSE PERVIOUS
PAVEMENT GETS FILLED UP WITH
SILT AND YOU NAME IT AND AFTER
YEARS IT WILL STOP WORKING SO
EVERYTHING&apos;S DIRECTED TO CATCH
BASINS AND INTO THIS
INFILTRATION.
SO IT&apos;S PROBABLY A MUCH BETTER
CHOICE TO GO THAT WAY IF THAT I
GUESS MY HOPE IS LIKE REMOVING
PARKING IS LIKE PUTTING SOME
MORE GREEN SPACE IN THE FUTURE
IN TERMS OF LIKE OTHER USE LIKE
INCREASING THE PERVIOUS SPACE
FOR MORE GARDEN SPACE OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT IN THE
FUTURE.
SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE THE
PETITIONER AWARE THAT THAT&apos;S NO
LONGER A REQUIREMENT AND SO
THERE COULD BE KIND OF FUTURE
IMPROVEMENTS THAT IS LESS
PARKING AREA WHICH WOULD BE
GREAT TO SEE.
&gt;&gt; BUT OTHER THAN THAT I REALLY
APPRECIATE THE WORK AND EFFORT
ON THE PROJECT AND WHAT IT&apos;S
DOING FOR THE CONTEXT OF THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND THE
IMPROVEMENT OF THE SITE.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU
.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
OH, COMMISSIONER WHITE, THIS IS
PROBABLY FOR STAFF.
WHAT HOW ARE WE TREATING THE
HOUSE?
THEY SAID THAT THE TENANTS WERE
STAYING AND IT&apos;S ON THE FUTURE
PARTS OF THIS THAT JUST SIT
WITHIN ITS EXISTING ZONING
UNTIL THEY MAKE A PROPOSAL TO
CHANGE ANY OF THAT.
AND ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONAL
REQUIREMENTS TO THE SITE
BECAUSE THE HOUSING IS THERE ON
THIS SITE.
SO FOR NOW THE HOUSE STAYS IT
REMAINS A FOUR UNIT RENTAL
PROPERTY AND IT WILL BECOME
PART OF A LARGER LOT BECAUSE
THERE ARE TWO LOTS RIGHT NOW
THAT WILL BE COMBINED AND BUT
THERE ARE NO CHANGES TO THAT
PROPERTY PROPOSED RIGHT NOW AS
PART OF THE SITE PLAN.
OK, YES.
DEPENDING ON WHAT THEY WANT TO
DO WITH IT, THEY MIGHT HAVE TO
COME BACK AGAIN TO THIS BODY IF
THEY NEEDED IF THEY WANTED TO
AMEND THEIR SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE AND USE THAT FOR CHURCH
USES OR SOMETHING.
BUT FOR NOW IT&apos;S JUST A FOUR
UNIT APARTMENT BUILDING AND WE
HAVE TALKED A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
ABOUT FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS TO IT
BUT RIGHT NOW THEY&apos;RE FOCUSING
ON THE BRICK BUILDING OK AND
THE OTHER COMMENT IS TO THE
PETITIONER I SEE THAT YOU ARE
ONLY PROPOSING EIGHT BAR BIKE
HOOPS THERE SO ONE
RECOMMENDATION IS TO SEE IF YOU
CAN INCREASE THAT AND ONE WAY
THAT I THINK YOU CAN ACHIEVE
THAT WITHOUT INCREASING THE
FOOTPRINT IS TO USE THE BOSTON
STYLE POST AND RAIN RACK WHICH
WILL ALLOW YOU TO PLACE MORE
BIKE RACKS THERE AS WELL
AS IT
CAN ACCOMMODATE DIFFERENT TYPES
OF BIKES LIKE CARGO BIKES AS
WELL AS ELECTRIC BIKES AS THEY
HOOK IN, ESPECIALLY IF YOU&apos;RE
HOPING TO ACHIEVE A
NEIGHBORHOOD PRESENCE FOR THE
LARGEST USE AND POTENTIALLY
HAVING FOLKS BIKE TO CHURCH.
AND AS A PASTOR OF A CHURCH
THAT PEOPLE BIKE TO, WE HAVE
RUN OUT OF BIKE SPACES AND SO
JUST A SMALL RECOMMENDATION FOR
YOU.
THIS LOOKS GREAT.
I&apos;M GLAD YOU GOT THROUGH THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT APPROVAL
PROCESS AND THANKS FOR THE WORK
THAT YOU&apos;RE DOING ON THE
BUILDING.
I ECHO MY COLLEAGUE
COMMISSIONER SURVEYS COMMENTS
AROUND IMPERVIOUS SPACE AND THE
PARKING.
I WAS SURPRISED TO SEE SO MUCH
PARKING THERE AND IN THAT SPACE
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE YOU UTILIZE
THAT SITE MORE AND GIVE LESS
OF THE SITE OVER TO PARKING.
SO THE EXPANSION OF THE
PLAYGROUND WHICH COMMISSIONER
SAUVé HAS ALREADY MENTIONED OR
JUST CREATING A PICNIC AREA OR
A GREEN SPACE JUST AS RELIEF
SODA OVERFLOW AFTER YOUR
SERVICES OR JUST A GATHERING
PACE AS OPPOSED TO PEOPLE
HAVING TO COME OUT OF THE
BUILDING AND DODGE CARS, YOU
KNOW, EVEN THOUGH IT&apos;S ONLY
SEVENTEEN CARS IN THAT LITTLE
LOOP.
SO JUST YOU DON&apos;T HAVE IT ON
YOUR PLAN.
BUT IF YOU DO MAKE CHANGES
BECAUSE OF THE HOUSE OR
EXPANSION&apos;S, WE WOULD LOVE TO
SEE MORE UTILIZE MORE
UTILIZATION OF THE SITE FOR
ACTIVATION AS OPPOSED TO FOR
CAR STORAGE.
THANK YOU.
THAT&apos;S VERY HELPFUL.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
OK, ARE WE READY FOR A VOTE?
SO THIS IS A ROLL CALL VOTE ON
BOTH MOTIONS AS PRESENTED
COMMISSIONER GIVE BRANDELL YES
COMMISSIONER SILVER YES.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER LEE YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE YES.
COMMISSIONER.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU&apos;RE WELCOME.
WE WILL MOVE ON NOW TO ITEM
EIGHT B WHICH IS THE NORTH
APARTMENTS ANNEXATION OF THREE
PARCELS AND CYO TOWNSHIP WHICH
IS EIGHTEEN FIFTY FIVE NORTH
MAPLE ROAD 1875 NORTH MAPLE
ROAD IN NINETEEN TWENTY ONE
KELVIN STREET THIS IS PDS
ZONING AMPADU SITE PLAN
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A SEVENTY
NINE UNIT APARTMENT COMMUNITY
WITH A SINGLE STORY CLUB HOUSE
ADDRESSES INCLUDE A EIGHTEEN
FIFTEEN 1855 EIGHTEEN SEVENTY
FIVE NORTH MAPLE IN NINETEEN
TWENTY ONE KELVIN STREET.
IF YOU GIVE MY APOLOGIES TO THE
COMMISSION TO THE PUBLIC IF YOU
COULD JUST GIVE ME ONE MOMENT
WE HAD A COUPLE OF LATE
CORRESPONDENCE REGARDING THIS
PETITION THAT WHILE MR CAN GET
SITUATED I WILL PASS OUT
ACTUALLY YEAH TAKE ONE.
ALL RIGHT SO WE CAN HAVE THE
PETITIONER PRESENTATION A TEN
MINUTE PETITIONER PRESENTATION
WAS ALL RIGHT
SO WE HAVE A BIT
OF A BLENDED PRESENTATION
OBVIOUSLY WE&apos;VE GOT TWO TEAM
MEMBERS THAT ARE JOINING
REMOTELY AND I&apos;M HERE IN PERSON
SO FIRST OF ALL THANK YOU ALL
FOR BEING HERE THIS EVENING.
MY NAME IS JEFF WILKERSON.
I&apos;M THE FOUNDING PARTNER WITH
TWO COLLABORATIVE, THE DESIGN
FIRM RESPONSIBLE FOR THE NORTH
MAPLE ROAD APARTMENTS.
I PLAN WE&apos;RE PRESENTING THIS
EVENING I&apos;M ALSO THE MANAGING
PARTNER WITH A TWO NORTH MAPLE
PROPERTIES AND AS PREVIOUSLY
MENTIONED TRISTAN AND KAROLIINA
ARE THE OTHER TWO TEAM MEMBERS
WITH TWO COLLABORATIVE AND THEY
WILL BE RUNNING THE SLIDE SHOW
TONIGHT TOM QUIVIRA WITH
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING IS ALSO
PRESENT AND I BELIEVE OVER
HISER WITH ARCHITECTS DESIGN
GROUP SHOULD BE JOINING
REMOTELY AND SO JUST KIND
OF MOVE INTO THE THE SITE PLAN
AND GIVE YOU A LITTLE BIT OF A
BACKGROUND AND HISTORY OF THE
PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL START OUT WITH THE WITH
THE LOCATION WE ARE ON THE
NORTHWEST SIDE OF ANN ARBOR AS
SHOWN ON THIS LOCAL MAP.
YOU ZOOM IN AS CLOSE TO THE
FOURTEEN INTERCHANGE THERE AS
POSSIBLE.
WE DO RUN RIGHT UP TO THE TOP
OF THERE IS AN EASEMENT TO THE
EXTREME NORTH AND YOU&apos;LL SEE
THE VARIOUS PARCELS HIGHLIGHTED
HERE THAT ARE INVOLVED WITH THE
PROJECT AND TO THAT END
EIGHTEEN FIFTEEN NORTH MAPLE IS
THE ONLY PARCEL THAT IS
CURRENTLY IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR PROPER.
THE OTHER THE OTHERS ARE
CURRENTLY STILL A PART OF CYO
TOWNSHIP AND SO ANNEXATION IS
PART OF THIS PROPOSAL.
THE PARCEL NINETEEN TWENTY ONE
WAS PREVIOUSLY FOUR DISTINCT
PARCELS.
WE HAVE ALREADY COMBINED THOSE
SO ESSENTIALLY THERE ARE THREE
PARCELS NEEDING TO BE ANNEXED
WITH THIS PROJECT AND OUR
DESIGN TEAM REALLY FROM THE
START WANTED TO CONSIDER SEVEN
PRIMARY DIRECTIVES IN
OPTIMIZING THIS THIS SITE PLAN
NUMBER ONE WE WANTED TO TAKE
INTO ACCOUNT BOTH CURRENT AND
FUTURE RESIDENTS NEEDS AND
CONCERNS WITH THE PROJECT.
WE WANTED TO DESIGN A RESILIENT
FUTURE REACHING COMMUNITY THAT
WAS ALL ELECTRIC AND ALSO
ANTICIPATED LESS DEPENDANCE ON
AUTOMOBILES.
WE WANTED TO STRIVE FOR
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DESIGN
AND TO THAT END WE&apos;VE INCLUDED
PHOTOVOLTAICS AND ARE CURRENTLY
EXPLORING GEOTHERMAL OPTIONS.
WE ALSO WANTED TO PROVIDE NEW
HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES WITH THE
CITY INCLUDING A 15 PERCENT
AFFORDABLE COMPONENT.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE PRESERVED NATURAL
FEATURES WHEREVER POSSIBLE AND
ESPECIALLY IN RELATION TO THE
WETLAND SETBACK AREA AND THE
PARCEL NINETEEN TWENTY ONE.
WE ALSO WANTED TO MINIMIZE
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVER AND
LASTLY CREATE MORE COHESION AS
FAR AS PEDESTRIAN AND BIKE
ACCESS ALONG NORTH MAPLE ROAD.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I FEEL WITH HELP FROM
CITY STAFF AND OTHER
STAKEHOLDERS WE&apos;VE ACHIEVED
THOSE OBJECTIVES AND HAVE A
VERY NICE AND BALANCED FORWARD
REACHING DESIGN.
AND SO WITH THAT I&apos;LL LET
TRISTIN AND CAROLINA WALK THE
REST OF YOU THROUGH THE
SPECIFICS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
CAN EVERYBODY HERE?
&gt;&gt; YES, RIGHT.
I THINK ALSO EXPLORES THE
CONSTRUCTION OF UPHOLSTERING
RESIDENTIAL APARTMENT BUILDING
THAT CONTAINS SEVENTY NINE
UNITS IN A SINGLE STORY
COMMUNITY BUILDING FOR
RECREATION DESIGNER WISE WITH
MANY OF THE CITY&apos;S PLANNING
GOALS INCLUDING ONE THE
INCLUSION OF 15 PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS THAT
12 UNIT TOTAL WE PROPOSE
EXPANDING AT IMPROVING
PEDESTRIAN ACCESS ALONG NORTH
MAPLE ROAD THROUGH THE
INCORPORATION OF A PROTECTED
PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALK, AN
EXTENSION OF SIDEWALKS
CONNECTING THE EXISTING GAP
BETWEEN IMPORTING IN MEXICO.
WE MAINTAIN 50 PERCENT OPEN
SPACE THROUGHOUT THE PROJECT
ALLOWING FOR THE PRESERVATION
OF SIXTEEN OUT OF THIRTY EIGHT
LANDMARK TREES IN THE SITE PLUS
ANOTHER SEVENTY TWO OUT OF 101
OTHER TREES.
&gt;&gt; THE DESIGN INCORPORATES ROOF
MOUNTED SOLAR POWER AND ALL
ELECTRIC APPLIANCES.
THE ADDITION OF PARKING
STATIONS IN THE COMMITMENT TO
ELECTRIFICATION ALIGNS WITHIN
HOURS EIGHT TO ZERO TWENTY
THIRTY CARBONNEUTRAL INITIATIVE
WE ARE CREATING AN
ARCHITECTURAL INTEREST OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR BY ENGAGING
THE STREET WITH A COMMUNITY
BUILDING AND INCORPORATING
INNOVATIVE FACADE DESIGNS TO
ACTIVATE NORTH MAPLE ROAD.
AND WE ARE PROVIDING MORE HUMAN
SCALE SPACES WITHIN THE CITIES
SUCH AS THE COURTYARD SPACE IN
THE CENTER OF THE PROJECT.
THE APARTMENT BUILDING IS
LOCATED ALONG THE NORTHEAST
EDGE OF THE SITE, CREATING A
GATEWAY TO THE CITY FROM THE
IMPORTANT NEW.
&gt;&gt; THE BUILDING WRAPS A
COURTYARD SPACE AT THE CENTER
OF THE SITE THAT PRESERVES
SEVERAL LANDMARK TREES AND
PROVIDES ACTIVE OPEN SPACE FOR
THE RESIDENTS.
WE&apos;VE LOCATED THE PARKING
TOWARDS THE SOUTHWEST OF THE
SITE WITH A SINGLE VEHICULAR
ENTRANCE ON NORTH ROAD.
THIS MAKES THE PARKING LESS
APPARENT AND SHIFTS OUR FOCUS
TO THE COMMUNITY BUILDING WITH
ACTIVE PROGRAMS LIKE A GYM, A
BIKE REPAIR AND STORAGE STATION
FRONTING THE NORTH MAPLE ROAD.
A PARKING LOT REDUCES THE
NUMBER OF SPACES TO POINT EIGHT
SIX TO ONE WHICH ENCOURAGES
ALTERNATE MEANS
OF TRANSPORTATION FOR THE
RESIDENTS AND GUESTS ON SITE WE
INCORPORATED A MIXTURE
OF COMPACT, ACCESSIBLE AND
GUEST PARKING SPACES TO FIT IN
A TIGHT LOOP MINIMIZING THE
IMPERVIOUS COVER AND VISUAL
IMPACT OF THE PLOT.
&gt;&gt; THE SITE ALSO INCORPORATES A
ONE TO ONE BIKE PARKING TO UNIT
RATIO WITH A MIXTURE BIKE CLASS
A AND CLASS C PARKING AROUND
THE SITE AND INSIDE THE
COMMUNITY BUILDING THE CURRENT
STATE OF NORTH MAPLE ROAD IS
INCOMPLETE ON THE EAST SIDE
THERE&apos;S A FULL LENGTH SIDEWALK
THAT TAPS INTO THE VAST TRAIL
NETWORK OF ANN ARBOR.
&gt;&gt; BUT ON THE WEST SIDE THERE&apos;S
A PRETTY BIG GAP BETWEEN MAPLE
COVE DEVELOPMENT WHICH IS JUST
TOWARDS THE SOUTH AND N14
.
OUR DESIGN WILL FILL THIS GAP
WITH A NEW SIDEWALK ALL THE WAY
THROUGH THE NEW DEVELOPMENT WE
PROPOSE A SAFE RECTANGULAR
RAPID FLASHING BEACON PROTECTED
CROSSWALK TO SPAN NORTH
OF MAPLE ROAD DIRECTLY
CONNECTING THE GARDEN HOMES
PARK WHICH IS JUST EAST OF THE
SITE WITH THE COMMUNITY
ALLOWING ACCESS TO THE PROPOSED
COVERED BUS STOP ON SITE WHICH
OUR TEAM REALLY HARD WITH ANN
ARBOR AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY TO
FIND THE PLACEMENT AND ACCESS
FOR THE BUS STOP.
THIS WOULD CREATE A PAIRED STOP
WHICH ALLOWS LOCAL RESIDENTS TO
GET ON AND OFF THE BUS FROM
EITHER SIDE OF THE ROAD AND
CROSS THE NEW CROSSWALK WITH
ITS CONNECTION WE WILL HAVE AN
EASIER ACCESS TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WE CAN
EMPHASIZE THE IMPORTANCE
OF OTHER FORMS
OF TRANSPORTATION IN PLACE
OF CARS.
&gt;&gt; APARTMENT BUILDING WILL HAVE
79 UNITS, 12 OF WHICH ARE
AFFORDABLE.
IT WILL BE A MIXTURE
OF STUDIOS, ONE BEDROOM UNITS
AND TWO BEDROOM UNITS AND
DESIGN INCLUDES A LOBBY, INDOOR
MAIL ROOM LEASING OFFICE AND
PERSONAL STORAGE LOCKERS TO BE
UTILIZED BY THE RESIDENTS AND
THE UNITS WILL HAVE TRIPLE PANE
OPERABLE WINDOWS AN ABOVE
AVERAGE INSULATED ENVELOPE AND
ENERGY STAR APPLIANCES.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE CURRENTLY EXPLORING
THE FEASIBILITY GEOTHERMAL
SYSTEMS WITH STRATEGIC ENERGY
SOLUTIONS TO PROVIDE MORE
SUSTAINABLE HEATING COOLING FOR
THE BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; THE COMMUNITY BUILDING WILL
CONTAIN THIRTY FIVE INDOOR BIKE
PARKING SPACES, A BIKE REPAIR
STATION, GYM LOCKERS AND A
BATHROOM FOR RESIDENTS A DESIGN
IS MEANT TO BE MINIMAL TO NOT
DISTRACT FROM THE EXISTING
NATURAL FEATURES THAT SURROUND
THE SITE BUT CREATE MORE
TEXTURED FACADE OF BRICK
COMPOSITE WOOD AND IFIRST THAT
WOULD MIMIC AND CONTRAST THE
COLORS AND TEXTURES SURROUNDING
RECAPTURE ALL ONSITE STORMWATER
WITH TWO UNDERGROUND DETENTION
BASINS AN OUTLET TO THE GARDEN
HOMES RAIN ON FIRE STREET ON
SITE SANITARY SEWER,
ELECTRICAL, TELECOM AND WATER
WILL BE ACCESSED FROM
NORTHBOROUGH RIGHT AWAY AND THE
SITE PLAN THESE ARE THE
APPROVAL&apos;S FROM THE APARTMENTS
THAT WE HAVE DISCUSSED.
OUR DESIGN IS BUILT ON
RESEARCHING HISTORIC COMMUNITY
CONCERNS AND INTEGRATING THE
ANSWERS INTO OUR PROJECT.
WE ARE CREATING A SAFER
PEDESTRIAN ACCESS ACROSS MAPLE
ROAD WHILE INCORPORATING
ALTERNATE MODES TO ACCESS THE
CITY HUMAN SCALE SPACES THAT
SPEAK TO THE VALUES OF THE
COMMUNITY IN A HOLISTIC DESIGN
THAT INTEGRATES THE GOALS
OF ANN ARBOR THROUGH THE
CONSCIOUS STRATEGIES THAT WE
HAVE DISCUSSED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR. KHAN, DO YOU HAVE
A STAFF PRESENTATION?
I DO.
AS A PD IT&apos;S IMPORTANT FOR THE
PROJECT TO BE CONSISTENT WITH
THE PURPOSE STATEMENT OF PD AND
ONE OF THE KEY ELEMENTS OF THAT
IS A SITE THAT IS UNIQUE IN
NATURE.
THIS SITE IS A GATEWAY SITE.
IT IS AT THE EDGE OF THE
URBANIZED AREA IN FACT
IMMEDIATELY TO THE WEST OUR
TOWNSHIP ISLAND PARCELS THAT
ARE NOT CURRENTLY HERE BY WATER
OR SEWER MUCH OF THE PARCEL
OF AND RIGHT OF WAY A NEW OR
RELATIVELY NEW ROUNDABOUT WAS
RECENTLY CONSTRUCTED AT THE
NORTH NEAR THE NORTHEAST CORNER
OF THIS SITE AND SKYLINE HIGH
SCHOOL WAS CONSTRUCTED A LITTLE
BIT MORE THAN A DECADE AGO
WHICH HAVE SUBSTANTIALLY
CHANGED TRAFFIC PATTERNS IN THE
AREA.
&gt;&gt; SO I DO WANT TO POINT OUT
THAT IT IS MY BELIEF THAT THE
SITE DOES QUALIFY AS A AS A
UNIQUE SITE.
THE PETITIONER IS AS THEY
INDICATED, ARE EXPLORING THE
FEASIBILITY OF INCLUDING
GEOTHERMAL AS PART OF THIS
PROJECT THAT WOULD BE UNDER THE
PARKING LOT WORKING WITH THE
PROPOSED SUBTERRANEAN DETENTION
SYSTEM SO THEY DON&apos;T CONFLICT
WITH ONE ANOTHER.
I&apos;M SURE THEY&apos;LL BE ABLE TO
SPEAK MORE ABOUT THAT.
THE PETITIONER DID INVITE TOM
COVID FROM MIDWESTERN
CONSULTING WHO IS HERE WITH US
IN CASE YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE SITE PLAN OR ANY
OF THE ENGINEERING OR
LANDSCAPING, I DO WANT TO
SUMMARIZE THE RECOMMENDATIONS
STAFF RECOMMEND RECOMMENDS THE
ANNEXATION PETITIONS BE
APPROVED BECAUSE THE PROPERTIES
ARE WITHIN THE CITIES UTILITY
SERVICE AREA.
THERE ARE THREE PARCELS THAT
NEED TO BE ANNEXED.
STAFF RECOMMENDS THAT PUDI
ZONING BE APPROVED BECAUSE THE
PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS DESIGN
FEATURES AMENITIES PROVIDE A
BENEFIT A BENEFICIAL EFFECT FOR
THE CITY IN TERMS OF HEALTH,
SAFETY, WELFARE AND ESTHETICS
INCLUDING INNOVATION OF LAND
USE AND VARIETY OF DESIGN,
LAYOUT AND TYPE OF STRUCTURES
THAT FURTHER THE STATED GOALS
AND PHYSICAL CHARACTER
OF ADOPTED LAND PLANS AND
POLICIES.
LASTLY, STAFF RECOMMENDS THE
SITE PLAN BE APPROVED BECAUSE
IT COMPLIES WITH ALL APPLICABLE
LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS,
ORDINANCES STANDARDS AND
REGULATIONS WOULD NOT CAUSE A
PUBLIC OR PRIVATE NUISANCE AND
WOULD NOT HAVE A DETRIMENTAL
EFFECT ON PUBLIC HEALTH,
SAFETY, WELFARE JUST INCLUDING
I HAVE NOT HEARD ANY NEGATIVE
NEGATIVE CONCERN ABOUT THE
PROJECT FROM RESIDENTS YOU DID
RECEIVE COUPLE LETTERS TODAY
THAT SUMMARIZE THEIR THEIR
THOUGHTS ABOUT THE PROJECT AND
I&apos;M HERE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
OK, THANK YOU.
ALREADY WE WILL MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS PETITION.
WELL, FIRST CALL IN INDIVIDUALS
WHO ARE PRESENT TO SPEAK TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AND THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THE PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PRESS LINE
OF LISTENING BY PHONE USE TO
RAISE THE HAND FEATURES OF THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
877 EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER A MEETING
ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED YOUR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME.
YOU&apos;LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
USE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS?
&gt;&gt; COME ON MAIN STREET.
&gt;&gt; OH I LIVE AT TWENTY THREE
FIFTY ONE FAST STREET SO I AM
TWO HOUSES IN FROM MAPLE ON FOX
WE HAD A MEETING WE ASSUME THIS
SPRING WITH THE DEVELOPERS AND
THERE WAS A GREAT DEAL
OF CONCERN REGARDING A PARKING
ISSUE.
THE INTENTION OF THE DEVELOPERS
SOUNDS GREAT.
IT DOES BUT THE FACT IS PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO HAVE CARS AND THEY
ARE LIKELY GOING TO END UP
PARKING IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD,
YOU KNOW, BLOCKING YOU KNOW,
OUR MAILBOXES, TRASH CANS, YOU
KNOW ALL OF THOSE KINDS
OF THINGS.
THE PLOWING AND SUCH.
AND I DID NOT HEAR ANYTHING ON
WHAT&apos;S GOING TO BE DONE FOR
THAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT WHEN WE HAD THE MEETING,
PARKING WAS THE BIGGEST ISSUE
THAT ALL THE NEIGHBORS WERE
PRETTY CONSISTENT ABOUT.
YOU KNOW, SOME OF US HAD OTHER
THINGS BUT BUT THAT WAS THE
MAIN ONE.
I KNOW THAT THERE&apos;S NOT MUCH
POINT IN SAYING I WOULD PREFER
THUS AND SUCH WITH THAT
PROPERTY BECAUSE IT&apos;S GOING TO
BE WHAT IT&apos;S GOING TO BE.
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S
GOING TO BE DEVELOPED AND THIS
PARTICULAR PROJECT LOOKS GOOD.
I JUST WISH THAT THE RATIO
OF APARTMENT TO PARKING WAS
BETTER.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; SO ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT?
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
.
HI I&apos;M CHERYL CHEVALLIER.
I RESIDE AT SEVENTEEN SIXTY ONE
KELVIN STREET DURING YOUR
PRESENTATION I DIDN&apos;T HEAR WHAT
WAS PLANNED FOR TODAY NINETEEN
TWENTY ONE KELVIN STREET SO
OTHER THAN POSSIBLE ANNEXATION
A FEW YEARS AGO WE ALREADY HAVE
A NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS OUR MAPLE
GROVE KELVIN IS CONSIDERED A
SHARED DRIVE.
YOU NEED ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
AGREEMENT OF ALL THE NEIGHBORS
LIVING THERE IN ORDER TO ACCESS
OUR ROAD WE PAY OUR TAXES TO
THE TOWNSHIP.
WE TAKE CARE OF OUR ROAD.
WE DON&apos;T GET ANYTHING IN
RETURN.
OK, IN ORDER TO I WOULD LIKE TO
KNOW HOW YOU PLAN TO CROSS OVER
KELVIN STREET BECAUSE A FEW
YEARS WHAT LIKE I SAY BEFORE
THE MAPLE COVE PROJECT WAS LIKE
APPROVED WE HAD GONE TO THE
LANSING AND HIRED AN ATTORNEY
HE LOOKED AT UNDER THE GREAT
SEAL OF THE STATE AND FOUND
THAT YES INDEED WE ARE CORRECT
.
I HOLD DEEDS BACK TO THE
EIGHTEEN HUNDREDS.
THE PROBLEMS I HAVE WITH THIS
IS YOU&apos;RE PUTTING ANOTHER
NEIGHBORHOOD IN A NEIGHBORHOOD
.
&gt;&gt; YOU ARE PIECEMEALING
ANNEXATION OF THIS ISLAND.
THERE WILL AGAIN BE NO ACCESS
TO CALVIN STREET.
WE HAVE LIGHTING ISSUES THE
PROPOSAL THERE&apos;S NOT ENOUGH
PARKING.
I AGREE AND IT DOESN&apos;T THE
EXISTING STRUCTURE OF THE SAME
FAMILY HOMES THAT ARE CURRENTLY
THERE, IT&apos;S ALREADY CONGESTED
AT MILLION MAPLE DUE TO THE
ACQUISITION OF LANES FOR
BIKERS.
SO I&apos;M GAME DAY AND ALL THE
WAYS THIS IS GOING TO BE A
PROBLEM.
IT&apos;S EXTREMELY CLOSE TO THE
ROUNDABOUT AND I&apos;M 14 I THOUGHT
I HEARD THERE&apos;S ONE CURB THAT
IS IN THIS PLAN.
NOT SURE I NEED TO CONFIRM THAT
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE LIGHTING
ISSUES
.
MOST OF THE NEIGHBORS IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD ARE RETIRED ON
FIXED INCOME SO WE HAVE TO
ADDRESS THAT AS WELL.
THERE&apos;S ALSO ANOTHER APARTMENT
PROPOSAL THAT&apos;S BEEN AGREED TO.
IT&apos;S GOING IN THAT MILLER AND
MAPLE OFF OF MILLER.
SO THERE ARE SOME PROPOSAL
THERE AND THAT WAS OK.
BUT THERE WAS A FIVE YEAR
MORATORIUM ON THE BUILD SO THEY
WERE STARTING TO CLEAR THAT
PROPERTY AT THIS TIME I AGREE
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE PEOPLE
CUTTING DOWN FROM THE OTHER
NEIGHBORHOODS.
WHAT WHAT IS THE COST OF THIS
FOR?
WE&apos;RE GOING TO NEED SPEED
BUMPS, KIDS.
I LIKE THE BLINKING LIGHT
CROSSING BUT IT&apos;S JUST SO
CONGESTED.
I THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
LISTENING TO ME.
YOU WANT TO SPEAK AND HEAR
THANK YOU.
SO ANYBODY ELSE LIKE TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
?
MY NAME IS BRIAN BIGGS.
I LIVE IN TWO SIX SIX ONE
WOODROW I GOT UP TO THE HAMDARD
ACQUIRED PROPERTIES AND I KNOW
WHEN THEY ARE FIFTY EIGHT YEARS
I&apos;VE LIVED IN THAT NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT ENTIRE YELLOW AREA DOWN
THERE IS WHITE SO WHAT ARE THEY
GOING TO DO ABOUT THE WETLANDS.
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO DESTROY THEM.
WHAT ARE THEY GOING TO DO ABOUT
STAYING OFF OF MY ROAD TO BUILD
THEIR HOUSES BECAUSE THEY DON&apos;T
KNOW WOODROW SO THAT MEANS ALL
THEIR CONSTRUCTION HAS GOT TO
COME ACROSS THE BACK SIDE WITH
THEN WITH THIS MAKOKO PROJECT
THAT THEY HAD ALL THESE
HISTORIC TREES NOT A SINGLE ONE
LEFT.
SO I KNOW BACK IN THIS YELLOW
AREA YOU&apos;VE GOT WAL-MART,
YOU&apos;VE GOT OH YOU&apos;VE GOT
HICKORY.
THEY&apos;RE ALL BEAUTIFUL TREES.
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO BE GONE FOR
WHAT?
AND THEN JUST OUT OF CURIOSITY
,58 PERCENT IS WHAT I&apos;M SEEING
THAT&apos;S SUPPOSED TO BE SAFE FOR
GREEN SPACE.
WHAT ABOUT FIFTY EIGHT PERCENT
OF THIS IS CLEAR TO ANYBODY AND
AT WHAT POINT ARE THE ACTUAL
RESIDENTS OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
GOING BE TAKEN INTO
CONSIDERATION?
NOT THIS BIG BEAUTIFUL PICTURE
THAT THEY PAINTED ON YOUR
STREET BECAUSE THAT&apos;S NOT WHAT
IT LOOKS LIKE IF ANY OF YOU OUT
THERE GO OUT THERE AT SEVEN
THIRTY IN THE MORNING AT TWO
FORTY FIVE IN THE AFTERNOON AND
TRY TO GET ROOT YOU CAN&apos;T
BECAUSE YOU&apos;VE GOT ALL THAT
HIGH SCHOOL PARK TRAFFIC.
YOU GOT EVERYBODY GETTING OFF
OF WORK GETTING ON THE HIGHWAY.
IT&apos;S IMPOSSIBLE AND YOU WANT TO
ADD MORE IT JUST DOESN&apos;T MAKE
SENSE.
NOT THAT I DON&apos;T MIND.
YEAH WE GOT TO DO WHAT WE GOT
TO DO TO MAKE THE WORLD BETTER
BUT WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO DO IT
RIGHT THERE IN THE MIDDLE
OF ROUNDABOUT.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN IF YOU GO DOWN THAT
ROUNDABOUTS NOT OLD ENOUGH TO
BE DESTROYED AND IT&apos;S DESTROYED
,THERE&apos;S TIRE TRACKS GOING
ACROSS THE MIDDLE AGES JUST TO
DEATH TRAP.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU EVERYBODY.
I&apos;M LANCE BROWN.
&gt;&gt; I AM THE HUSBAND OF CHERYL
CHEVALLIER AND I DON&apos;T KNOW IF
THAT HAS THERE BEEN A TRAFFIC
STUDY DONE IMPACTING THIS
BECAUSE I&apos;M JUST AS CONCERNED
ABOUT A FLASHING CROSSWALK
RIGHT OUT OF THAT ROUNDABOUT.
I MEAN I&apos;VE NEVER SEEN THAT
DONE BEFORE AND WE&apos;VE HAD
HAZARDS AT CROSSWALKS ALL
ALONG.
I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE A TRAFFIC STUDY
ESPECIALLY SINCE WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE
BUILDING ANOTHER HOWEVER MANY
APARTMENT COMPLEX ON THE CORNER
OF MILLER AND MAPLE.
THAT ONE&apos;S UNDER CONSTRUCTION
RIGHT NOW.
ALL ARE WORRIED.
WE&apos;RE WORRIED JUST LIKE OUR
NEIGHBOR ON FOURTH STREET SAID
ABOUT PARKING TOO.
I DON&apos;T THINK THEY&apos;LL EVER COME
DOWN OUR PRIVATE STREET BECAUSE
YEAH, YOU CAN&apos;T COME DOWN
KALPEN IT IS A PRIVATE DRIVE
AND I MEAN WE&apos;RE PIECEMEALING
EVERYTHING TOGETHER BUT THAT I
DON&apos;T KNOW HOW MANY CURB CUTS
YOU CAN HAVE IN THAT QUARTER
MILE UP TILL THE CORNER BUT
IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, TWO APARTMENT
COMPLEXES ARE GOING TO IMPACT
THE TRAFFIC TREMENDOUSLY.
I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE A STUDY THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SIR.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK ON THIS PROJECT
.
&gt;&gt; OK, CNN WILL MOVE ON TO
ANYBODY WHO&apos;S IN LINE ONLINE
AND THE ONLINE SPEAKERS PLEASE
USE YOUR RAISED HAND FEATURE OR
STAR NINE DEPENDING ON YOUR
ACCESS SIGNAL.
&gt;&gt; OK, ALL RIGHTY.
&gt;&gt; I WILL READ THEIR PROPOSED
MOTION IN AND THEN WE WILL MOVE
INTO DISCUSSION.
THE UNIVERSITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVED NORTH MAPLE APARTMENTS
ANNEXATION PD PLAN DEVELOPMENT
ZONING DISTRICT ADD
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
DISCIPLINE AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT WITH FIRE
COMMISSIONER THEY SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER DISH THANKS ALL
OF YOU WHO CAME OUT TO SHARE
YOUR CONCERNS.
I WANT TO ADDRESS THE ONES THAT
I THINK I UNDERSTAND FROM
HAVING READ THE REPORT AND AS
USUAL STAFF SORRY TO
COMMISSIONER CAN NOT HEAR ME.
I CAN TARGET RANDALL.
WE DO HAVE A SPEAKER
SUBSEQUENTLY ADDED RAISED HIM.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF YOU WANT TO
ACCOMMODATE THAT OR CONSIDER
THE PUBLIC I ENCLOSED.
I&apos;M OK ABOUT LETTING THEM IN.
&gt;&gt; JANE ADAMS YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I COULD I RESIDENT THE FIRST
FOR O&apos;DANIEL STREET.
I LISTEN TO THE PUBLIC COMMENTS
EARLIER AND WHILE SYMPATHETIC
TO A LOT OF THE CONCERNS RAISED
BY THE FOLKS THAT ARE LIVING IN
THE VICINITY OF THIS
DEVELOPMENT TO OFFER THE
PERSPECTIVE OF SOMEBODY ELSE
WHO LIVES THE DIFFERENT
NEIGHBORHOOD AND HOW THESE
DECISIONS AND I&apos;M SURE YOU KNOW
THIS BUT I JUST WANT TO PROVIDE
A DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE.
THERE ARE ALREADY IMPACTS
OF COURSE FOR THE FOLKS THAT
LIVE NEAR THE DEVELOPMENT WHICH
IS BEING PROPOSED I THINK ARE
VERY FAVORABLE TERMS RELATIVE
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS HAVE BEEN
APPROVED BY COUNCIL PLANNING
OVER THE LAST TWO YEARS.
YOU KNOW, PROBABLY WE HAVE A
HOUSING CRISIS IN THE WAY THAT
I&apos;VE SEEN MANIFEST IN THE FIRST
WARD WATER HILL JUST DOWN THE
STREET FROM ME.
WE&apos;VE SEEN A NUMBER OF HOUSES
THAT WHEN I GO IN 2012 THEY
WERE RELATIVELY AFFORDABLE TO
MY CITY OF ANN OUR STANDARDS
ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY TWO
HUNDRED THOUSAND HOMES THAT
WERE WITHIN REACH FOR ME AND
FOLKS IN MY INCOME BRACKET
FOLKS MY AGE AND THOSE HOMES
ARE BEING TORN DOWN TO BUILD
MANSIONS.
THEY&apos;RE BEING TORN DOWN TO
BUILD 750 MILLION MILLION PLUS
HOMES BECAUSE THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
WHERE WE ARE.
THAT&apos;S WHERE WE ARE WITH THE
SUPPLY OF HOUSING IN THE MARKET
AND IT&apos;S CREATING A SITUATION
WHERE THE NEIGHBORHOODS IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD, FOLKS THAT ARE
BUYING NOW ARE BEING PRICED
OUT.
AND I&apos;M A CORPORATE ATTORNEY
AND I LIVE SURROUNDED BY OTHER
CORPORATE ATTORNEYS
INCREASINGLY AND THAT&apos;S NOT
RIGHT.
I&apos;M NOT DISPARAGING THE
PROFESSION BUT WE CAN&apos;T BE A
PLACE WHERE ONLY CORPORATE
ATTORNEYS AND TECH
PROFESSIONALS AND PEOPLE WITH
MBAS CAN AFFORD TO LIVE.
AND I RECOGNIZE THE IMPACT
OF DESTRUCTION ON THE FOLKS
THAT ARE LIVING UNDER THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
BUT WE HAVE TO BUILD HOUSING
SOMEWHERE AND WE HAVE TO WE
HAVE TO FIND A WAY TO
ACCOMMODATE THAT AND GET AND
SATISFY SOME OF THE POLICY
OBJECTIVES THAT WE SAW FOR THE
CITY AND KEEP THE CITY IN A
PLACE THAT IS AFFORDABLE TO A
BROADER RANGE OF DIFFERENT
PEOPLE FROM DIFFERENT
BACKGROUNDS AND DIFFERENT
PROFESSIONS.
&gt;&gt; NONE OF THESE DEVELOPMENTS
ARE EASY.
NONE OF THESE DEVELOPMENT
DECISIONS ARE EASY FOR YOU ON
THE PLANNING COMMISSION OR FOR
THE CITY COUNCIL.
PLEASED TO SEE HOW POLICE WILL
SEE WE&apos;RE MAKING PROGRESS AND I
SUPPORT THIS.
I THANK YOU FOR CONTACTING ME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OK, WELL NO OTHER SPEAKERS NO
OTHER SPEAKERS ALREADY SORRY
FOR THE NO PROBLEM.
YEAH WELL I WANTED TO AGAIN I
WANT TO THANK THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE HERE AND I WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT YOU KNOW THAT WE&apos;RE
LISTENING AND SO I WANTED TO
ADDRESS A FEW OF THE CONCERNS
THAT I FELT LIKE I CAN ADDRESS
AND I WANTED TO ASK MR. COHAN
TO TALK ABOUT THE TRAFFIC STUDY
.
UM, SO YOU RAISED A QUESTION
ABOUT WETLANDS AND SO THERE
THERE ARE WETLANDS ON THE FAR
NORTHERN PORTION OF THE SITE
AND ON THE PROPERTY TO THE WEST
OF THE SITE AND AS FAR AS I
UNDERSTAND FROM READING THE
REPORT, THOSE AREN&apos;T GOING TO
BE DISTURBED
.
YOU MENTIONED TREES.
THE SITE DOES INCLUDE A NUMBER
OF OLDER TREES, THOSE ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF THE SITE ARE NOT
GOING TO BE DISTURBED.
&gt;&gt; THE WOODLAND ON THE SOUTH
SIDE OF THE SITE HAS MOSTLY
YOUNGER TREES AND SOME 38
LANDMARK TREES, 16 OF WHICH
WILL BE PRESERVED SO SO THERE
IS THERE WILL BE SOME LOSS
OF TREES BUT BY NO MEANS AN
ENTIRE LOSS OF TREES.
I UNDERSTAND YOUR CONCERNS
ABOUT TRAFFIC.
THOSE OF US WHO DO LIVE IN A
MORE PERIPHERAL PARTS OF ANN
ARBOR ARE SEEING A LOT
OF DEVELOPMENT AND IT IS
BRINGING A FAIR AMOUNT
OF TRAFFIC SO I WONDERED, MR.
COHEN, IF YOU COULD SPEAK TO
THAT CONCERN
.
I&apos;D BE HAPPY TO SPEAK ABOUT THE
ISSUES OF TRAFFIC.
&gt;&gt; WHAT WE&apos;RE LEARNING IS THAT
UM IN OUR WORK IS A JOBS
GENERATING COMMUNITY THAT IS
RESULTING IN A REMARKABLE
NUMBER OF FOLKS WHO CANNOT
AFFORD TO LIVE HERE IN
COMMUTING OR FROM OTHER OTHER
PLACES.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE EVIDENTLY PRODUCING
MORE THAN A THOUSAND NEW JOBS A
YEAR AND WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE NOT
CREATING THAT KIND OF HOUSING
SUPPLY.
AND SO A LOT OF FOLKS WHO ARE
COMING INTO ANN ARBOR DURING
THOSE PEAK PERIODS ARE COMING
HERE FOR WORK AND SO THOSE
THOSE SITES THAT ABUT A FREEWAY
INTERCHANGE ARE LIKELY GOING TO
SEE SUBSTANTIAL INCREASES IN
TRAFFIC OVER TIME.
I WOULD SAY THIS A SITE THAT
HAS 65 PARKING
PERCENTAGE IN
THE NEW GROWTH OF TRAFFIC THAT
IS GOING TO TAKE PLACE
THROUGHOUT THROUGHOUT THE
COMMUNITY WITH REGARD TO YOUR
OTHER QUESTION, COMMISSIONER
DISH WITH REGARD TO THE TRAFFIC
STUDY, YES, OUR OUR TRAFFIC
ENGINEERS ANALYZED THE SITE
RECOGNIZING THAT IT WAS NOT
CREATING AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT
OF TRAFFIC DURING THOSE PEAK
PERIODS AND WAS PARTICULARLY
INTERESTED IN CREATING A SAFE
PEDESTRIAN CROSSING WHICH WHICH
THE PETITIONER HAS AGREED TO
FUND, WHICH WILL BE A
PEDESTRIAN CROSSING WITH A
REFUGE ISLAND AND OUR PHOEBES
WHICH WILL ALLOW PEDESTRIANS TO
ACTIVATE THE SIGNAL IN AND
OBTAIN A SAFER CROSSING TIME
COVERED IS WITH US FROM
MIDRIFFS CONSULTING WHO IS
FAMILIAR WITH THE TRAFFIC STUDY
MORE MORE THAN I AM AND I WOULD
INVITE TIME TO CORRECT ANYTHING
I&apos;VE SAID OR ADD ANYTHING TO
THE CONVERSATION
.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING COMMISSIONER
TOM CORBETT WITH MIDWESTERN AS
JEFF SAID, JEFF DID POINT OUT
ALL THE THINGS THAT WE
UNDERSTAND FROM WORKING WITH
THE CITY TRANSPORTATION FOLKS
WE ARE INTERESTING CONVERGENCE
OF NOT ONLY CITY OF ANN ARBOR
RIGHT AWAY BUT COUNTY AND I&apos;M
NOT RIGHT AWAY.
SO WE ALSO ENGAGE THOSE FOLKS
IN THE DISCUSSION AND WITH
SIXTY FIVE SPACES AND BASED ON
THE NUMBER OF UNITS THAT WE
HAVE THE PEAK HOUR GENERATION
IS DIFFERENT THAN THE STREET SO
WE AREN&apos;T TRIPPING ANY NUMBERS
THAT WOULD REQUIRE ANY KIND
OF STUDIES OR A LOT OF CONCERN
WITH REGARD TO OUR ACCESS TO
THE SITE.
I WILL SAY WE DO HAVE A SINGLE
ACCESS FOR OUR CARS AND ACCESS
TO THE SITE.
WE HAVE MULTIPLE PEDESTRIAN
ACCESS TO THE SITE.
WE ARE PROMOTING FOR THE USE
OF BICYCLES AND SO ON THROUGH
THE SITE WE DO HAVE A SECOND
POINT OF ACCESS TO THE SITE
THAT I WANT TO MENTION THAT THE
NEIGHBORS WERE CURIOUS ABOUT
CURB CUTS.
WE HAVE A SECOND POINT
OF ACCESS TO THE SITE.
I DON&apos;T WANT TO CALL IT CURB
BECAUSE WE&apos;RE ONLY GOING TO USE
IT FOR FIRE IF A FIRE TRUCK
NEEDED TO ACCESS THE NORTHERN
SIDE OF OUR BUILDING, THERE&apos;S
AN OPPORTUNITY THAT WOULD FEEL
LIKE A CURB CUT BY A FIRE TRUCK
COULD ACCESS THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE BUILDING.
SO WE DO HAVE THAT SECONDARY
LIMITED ACCESS TO OUR SITE BUT
FROM A GENERATION
TRANSPORTATION PERSPECTIVE AND
THE COUNTY AND THE CITY
ENGINEERS DIDN&apos;T HAVE THE
CONCERN WITH THE ANY TRAFFIC
ISSUES WITH WHAT THE SITE WOULD
GENERATE AT PEAK HOURS.
THANK YOU.
DO YOU HAVE A FOLLOW QUESTION?
&gt;&gt; YOU GOT MORE OF A I ALWAYS
WANT TO MAKE SURE NO, NOT FOR
YOU.
I JUST THANK YOU.
I DIDN&apos;T MEAN THAT I DIDN&apos;T
MEAN TO I WASN&apos;T TRYING TO BE
RUDE.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I
I AM UNDERSTANDING THIS CLEARLY
,MR. COHEN.
AND I THINK THAT THOSE OF US
WHO LIVE IN IS MORE PERIPHERAL
AREAS OF ANN ARBOR ARE
EXPERIENCING HIGHER TRAFFIC
CONGESTION AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S OUR
EXPERIENCE AND SO WE FEEL AS
THOUGH IT IS BEING GENERATED BY
THE DEVELOPMENT.
BUT I THINK THE STRUCTURAL FACT
IS THAT WHAT YOU SAID, MR.
KAHN, THAT ANN ARBOR IS A JOB
GENERATING COMMUNITY GENERATING
MORE THAN A THOUSAND JOBS A
YEAR.
MOST OF THOSE PEOPLE CAN AFFORD
TO LIVE HERE.
AND SO WHAT WE&apos;RE SEEING IS A
BIG INCREASE IN COMMUTER
TRAFFIC AND WE NEED TO
DISTINGUISH BETWEEN THE EFFECTS
OF COMMUTER TRAFFIC AND
ACTUALLY THE POSSIBILITY THAT
OR THE LIKELIHOOD THAT
DEVELOPMENT IS MITIGATING SOME
OF THAT COMMUTER TRAFFIC
BECAUSE WE&apos;RE CREATING PLACES
FOR PEOPLE WHO WOULD OTHERWISE
NEED TO DRIVE HERE.
AND IN THAT RESPECT THIS THIS
DEVELOPMENT IS IS PARTICULARLY
INTERESTING BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT IN
DOWNTOWN.
SO IT WON&apos;T IT&apos;S NOT IN THE
MARKET THAT&apos;S REALLY EXPENSIVE
DOWNTOWN AND IT HAS MODEST SIZE
APARTMENTS AND IT&apos;S PROVIDING A
LOT OF FACILITY FOR ALTERNATE
MODES OF TRAVEL AND SO THIS IS
AS MR. ADAMS MENTIONED COMPARED
TO SOME OTHER THINGS THAT WE&apos;RE
NEEDING TO LOOK AT WHICH I FEEL
LIKE ARE REMAINING VERY
ORIENTED TOWARD CARS.
I FEEL VERY GOOD ABOUT WHAT
THIS DEVELOPMENT CAN BRING TO
MITIGATE THAT THE INCREASE
OF TRAFFIC THAT&apos;S USUALLY
COMING FROM HERE.
SO I&apos;M SORRY THAT STARTED OUT
COHERENT AND A LITTLE BIT ENDED
OUT NOT SO MUCH
COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT?
YEAH.
SO I&apos;LL START MY COMMENTS BY
ASKING THE PETITIONER TO
RESPOND TO A COUPLE OF THE
PUBLIC COMMENTS THAT I HEARD
THERE WAS A CONCERN AROUND A
LIGHTING ISSUES WITH THE
PROJECT SO THE PETITIONER OR
THOSE ON THE ZOOME COULD
ADDRESS THAT AND THEN I&apos;LL JUST
WORK THROUGH SOME OF THE THINGS
THAT I HEARD FROM THE PUBLIC
COMMENTS THAT I HAD QUESTIONS
ABOUT.
I THINK WE DO HAVE THE
PHOTOMETRIC STUDY.
&gt;&gt; TRISTIN, ARE YOU ABLE TO
PULL THAT UP?
I MEAN OUR PHOTOMETRIC STUDY WE
DID TRY TO LIMIT TO THE LOWEST
POSSIBLE LUMINESCENCE FOR
PARKING IN A FACILITY AND WE
CAN SHARE THAT AND WHILE THAT
IS GETTING PULLED UP FOR STAFF
,THIS COMPLIES WITH OUR NEW
REGULATIONS FOR LIGHTING THAT
HAVE TO BE DIRECTIONAL DOWN AND
NOT OPEN AND HAVE TO MEET A
CERTAIN STANDARD.
SO WE&apos;RE NOT JUST TALKING
BRIGHT LIGHTS THAT WILL BRING
LIGHTING INTO THE NEARBY
RESIDENCE LIKE JUST IN YOU
KNOW, DIRECTIONALLY I GUESS
THAT&apos;S WHAT I&apos;M TRYING TO SAY.
&gt;&gt; YES, THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE DIRECTIONAL DOWN
PRESERVE THE YOU KNOW, THE
NIGHT SKY AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE
AND I MEAN YOU CAN SEE THE YOU
KNOW FROM THE STUDY HERE WE&apos;VE
HAD DONE IT IS AS MINIMAL AS
POSSIBLE.
OK, THE OTHER COMMENT CAME
AROUND THE ACCESS TO KELVIN
STREET BUT I DON&apos;T SEE ANYTHING
IN THE SITE PLAN THAT WOULD
ATTEMPT TO ACCESS KELVIN
STREET.
SO THERE&apos;S REALLY NO HONESTLY
WE&apos;RE MOSTLY JUST PRESERVING
THAT SPACE AS A BUFFER.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M 14 AND THEN THERE WAS A
CONCERN AROUND THE CONSTRUCTION
ACCESS SO THAT THERE WAS
CONCERN FROM THE PUBLIC
COMMENTERS THAT YOU MAY TRY TO
ACCESS THE PROPERTY FROM
COLLINS STREET WITH
CONSTRUCTION VEHICLES.
&gt;&gt; IS YOUR PLAN TO JUST COME
OFF OF MAPLE?
OH, I THINK THAT&apos;S PROBABLY THE
ONLY WAY THAT THAT COULD BE
DONE LOGISTICALLY AND THEN I
THINK COMMISSIONER DISH, YOU
ADDRESS THE TREES AND THE
WETLANDS RIGHT.
AND YOUR QUESTIONS.
SO UNFORTUNATELY I WAS GOING TO
ASK ABOUT THE PARKING WHICH WAS
WHY SO MUCH PARKING ESPECIALLY
WHEN I SEE THE THE SITE AS IT&apos;S
LAID OUT I I JUST LOOK AND I
DREAM FOR MORE HOUSING ON THAT
AND IF YOU COULD JUST YOU OR
THE THE ARCHITECTS OR DESIGNERS
CAN JUST SPEAK I KNOW YOU&apos;VE
REDUCED IT WE DON&apos;T HAVE ANY
PARKING REQUIREMENTS ANYMORE
AND ESPECIALLY INSIDE THE PVD I
THINK.
RIGHT.
SO IF YOU COULD JUST TALK TO US
ABOUT WHAT YOU FEEL LIKE THE
MARKET IS REQUIRING HERE
BECAUSE IT&apos;S STILL SUCH A LARGE
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE SITE AND I
DON&apos;T KNOW WHICH THERE&apos;S A
RENDER THAT HAS THE BUILDING
PLUS THE PARKING LOT YOU SEE IT
YOU SORT OF I SORT OF LOOK AT
IT AND
I GO OH LOOK, YOU COULD
PUT A WHOLE NOTHER HOUSING UNIT
IN YOUR PARKING LOT AND WE
COULD GET PROBABLY ANOTHER
FORTY UNITS.
&gt;&gt; DID YOU THINK ABOUT THAT?
SO IF YOU YEAH NO NO I&apos;M HAPPY
TO DO THAT.
&gt;&gt; I COULD SPEAK TO THAT.
SURE SURE.
WE REALLY DID TRY TO STRIKE
WHAT WE FELT WAS AN APPROPRIATE
BALANCE CONSIDERING THE CURRENT
MARKET AND ALSO TRYING TO THINK
YOU KNOW FORWARD AS FAR AS
ALTERNATIVE MEANS
OF TRANSPORTATION AND THAT THAT
REALLY IS WHY WE FOCUSED OUR
COMMUNITY CENTER ON HAVING, YOU
KNOW, NOT ONLY BIKE STORAGE AND
MAINTENANCE BUT ANY BIKE
PARKING SO BUT WE DID PRESERVE
AS MUCH GREEN SPACE SOME OF OUR
EARLY PLANTS DID LOOK AT
PROVIDING MORE PARKING AND WE
FELT WITH THE BUS STOP THE FACT
THAT MOST OF OUR RESIDENTS
MIGHT BE COMMUTING AND NOT BE
ABLE TO USE PUBLIC ACCESS TO TO
GET TO THEIR PLACES
OF EMPLOYMENT THAT PROVIDING
THE SIXTY FIVE SPACES AND ALSO
IN CONSIDERATION OF THE FACT
THAT WE HAVE ABOUT NINETY FIVE
NINETY SIX BEDS AND THERE WILL
BE A FEW STAFF PERSONNEL THERE
AS WELL.
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE TOTAL
NUMBER OF POSSIBLE PEOPLE WE
REALLY ARE ALMOST CLOSER TO A
HALF PARKING SPACE PER PERSON
ON SITE OK THE I WANTED TO ALSO
RECOMMEND THE BOSTON POST AND
BRING RACKS FOR YOU FOR YOUR
CLASS SEE SO THAT YOU COULD GET
MORE BIKES INTO IT AT LEAST
FROM THE RENDER IT LOOK LIKE IT
WAS JUST A CIRCULAR HOOP AND IF
YOU USE A DIFFERENT POST YOU
CAN GET MORE BIKES INTO THERE
AND I APPRECIATE THAT YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO HAVE A BIKE SPACE FOR
EVERY UNIT ACTUALLY FOR EVERY
PERSON WE HAVE WE EXCEED THAT.
SO WE HAVE UP TO ONE HUNDRED
SPOTS FOR BIKES I BELIEVE.
AND THEN WHEN WE FIRST SAW THE
PROJECT IT WAS UNCLEAR WHETHER
THE BIKE PARKING WAS GOING TO
BE AT GROUND LEVEL OR BELOW
GROUND LEVEL AND I THINK IT&apos;S
AT GROUND LEVEL.
WE DID EXPLORE WHERE THE
LOCKERS ARE CURRENTLY PLACED
POSSIBLY YOU KNOW AND I COULD
STILL END UP HAVING SOME
SPILLOVER PARKING FOR.
BUT THE OTHER QUESTION THAT I
HAD WAS AROUND DID YOU CONSIDER
IN YOUR WASTE MANAGEMENT
ALLOWING YOUR RESIDENTS TO
PARTICIPATE IN COMPOST BECAUSE
I DIDN&apos;T SEE IT IN THE PLAN FOR
IT AND ESPECIALLY SINCE YOU
HAVE THIS EXTRA SORT
OF COMMUNITY CENTER THAT COULD
BE A PLACE WHERE RESIDENTS
COULD BRING AND SINCE SERVICES
THE UNITS FOUR TIMES A WEEK FOR
TRASH PICKUP AND TWICE A WEEK
FOR RECYCLING, I WONDERED WHERE
THE CONVERSATION WENT WITH
COMPOSTING BECAUSE THIS IS A
LOT OF FOLKS WHO COULD
PARTICIPATE IN THAT PROGRAM.
&gt;&gt; WE DO HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY ON
THE SITE AND WE DID CONSIDER
THAT THAT SUGGESTION FROM
PREVIOUS MEETINGS AND IF YOU
LOOK AT WHERE THE SOLID WASTE
IS CURRENTLY LOCATED, THERE IS
A WAY THAT IF ANN ARBOR AT ANY
TIME IN THE FUTURE IS TO ADD
ROUTINE COMPOSTING, PICK UP,
THERE IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO TO
EXPAND AND PROVIDE THERE.
AND THEN MY LAST QUESTION IS
AND I DON&apos;T KNOW IF IT&apos;S FOR
YOUR CONSULT YOUR ENGINEERING
CONSULTANT OR YOUR DESIGNERS.
IF YOU COULD JUST TALK A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT YOUR PLANS WITH THE
GEOTHERMAL BECAUSE WE HEAR A
LOT FROM DEVELOPERS WE ARE
EXPLORING OR WE&apos;RE INTERESTED
IN BUT THOSE THINGS DON&apos;T
ALWAYS MATERIALIZE AND YOU KNOW
,I THINK FROM MY REMEMBER
RENUMBERING THIS FIRST
PRESENTATION TO WHERE WE ARE
TODAY, THERE SEEMS TO BE A LOT
OF IMPROVEMENTS BASED ON SOME
OF THE FEEDBACK THAT WE GAVE
INCLUDING THE INCREASE OF SOLAR
AS WELL AS BATTERY STORAGE.
YOU KNOW, THE REDUCTION IN THE
PARKING YOU STILL HAVE A FIFTY
PERCENT OF OPEN SPACE SO AS I
ASK THIS QUESTION, YOU KNOW, I
ASK IT AND WOLF THAT I THINK
YOU ALL HEARD A LOT OF OUR
INITIAL FEEDBACK AND YOU MADE
SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENTS TO THE
SITE PLAN.
I SIT HERE GRATEFUL FOR WHAT
WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT.
I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR WHERE YOU
ARE IN THIS EVALUATION PHASE.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT ARE YOU REALLY.
NO, NO.
IT IS VERY IT IS AN ONGOING
PROCESS AND THERE IS POTENTIAL.
SO WE DO HAVE A BORING LAYOUT
THAT INCLUDES APPROXIMATELY
TWENTY FIVE POSSIBLE BORING
SITES AND ARE THOSE ARE THEY
FIVE HUNDRED FEET.
WELL THEY ARE PROJECTED TO BE
FIVE HUNDRED AT THIS POINT SO
YOU KNOW WE KNOW THAT THE
CONNECTIVITY WITH THE SOILS IN
ANN ARBOR IS GOOD ENOUGH TO
PRODUCE IT AND APPROXIMATELY
TWENTY FIVE BORINGS FROM OUR
ENERGY MODELING WOULD HELP TO
OFFSET A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT
OF HEATING AND COOLING USAGE.
SO YOU KNOW, DEPENDING ON ON
COST AND WHERE THEY END UP IN
RELATION TO THE OTHER ITEMS IN
THE PROJECT WE ARE VERY
INTERESTED IN PROVIDING THAT IF
POSSIBLE THE SOLAR AND OUR
COMMITMENT TO SOLAR.
YOU KNOW, WE&apos;VE REALLY HAD FROM
DAY ONE AND THE GEOTHERMAL WAS
A WAY TO KIND OF SUPPLEMENT
THAT IF POSSIBLE.
OK, THOSE ARE MY QUESTIONS.
COMMISSIONER MILLS I A
COMMISSIONER SO I SNUCK IN OK,
I WILL DO WHAT I TYPICALLY DO
WHICH IS WHEN WE DO A PUDI I
LIKE TO SAY BECAUSE WE ARE
MAKING A NEW ZONING JURISTIC
EFFECTIVELY C COMPARE THE PLAN
THAT WE GOT TO KIND OF WHAT&apos;S
IN THE DEREGULATION&apos;S JUST SO
PEOPLE CAN SURE UNDERSTAND IF
THINGS CHANGE ALONG THE WAY
KIND OF WHAT THE OPTIONS ARE
AND I&apos;LL SAY THAT THIS IS
REALLY CLOSE IN IN A LOT
OF RESPECTS BUT I JUST THOUGHT
I WOULD BECAUSE I THE KIND
OF ANALYSIS POINT OUT FOR
COMMISSIONERS AND THE PUBLIC
WHERE THERE ARE DIFFERENCES.
ONE IS ON PARKING SO
COMMISSIONERS MAY HAVE A
DIFFERENT OPINION THAN MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC BUT WHAT THE PUDI
REGS SAY IS THAT IT NEEDS TO BE
NO MORE THAN SEVENTY FIVE
SPOTS.
SO CURRENTLY SHOWN ON HERE IS
FEWER THAN WHAT THE PD WOULD
ALLOW.
BUT BUT JUST PUT THAT IN
PERSPECTIVE IN TERMS OF IT&apos;S
PRETTY CLOSE THE PLAN WE SEE IS
ALSO THE D WOULD REQUIRE FIFTY
EIGHT BICYCLE PARKING SPOTS AND
WHAT WE&apos;RE SEEING IS CLOSER TO
80 OR AT LEAST THAT&apos;S WHAT THE
KIND OF TABLE SAYS AND SO THEY
DON&apos;T HAVE TO BUILD THAT MUCH
BUT I&apos;M GLAD TO SEE THAT THEY
ARE I OFTEN WILL COMPARISON IN
TERMS OF HEIGHT AND THAT IS
LIKE ALMOST THAT ON AND
SETBACKS AND SO FOR THE EAST
BACK AND THE WEST SET BACK,
THOSE ARE WITHIN A FOOT OR TWO
KIND OF OF WHAT THAT IS.
BUT ON THE NORTH SIDE IT IS A
LARGE TO BE OF ONE HUNDRED FEET
AND IT LOOKS LIKE IT&apos;S ONE IN
TWENTY SO IT COULD GO A LITTLE
BIT TO THE NORTH SIMILARLY IN
THE SOUTH IT&apos;S ALLOWED TO BE
SEVENTY FIVE FEET FROM THE
PROPERTY LINE IS CURRENTLY AT
EIGHTY FIVE SO BUT GENERALLY
SPEAKING IT&apos;S PRETTY CLOSE AND
I THINK IT GIVES A LITTLE BIT
OF WIGGLE ROOM IN CASE THINGS
NEED TO SHIFT OVER TIME.
SO AGAIN I&apos;M USUALLY LOOKING
FOR THE LOOPHOLES THERE AND I
DON&apos;T SEE ANYTHING OF WHAT
WOULD BE QUITE DIFFERENT THAT
IF THIS IS APPROVED IF WE
APPROVE THE PD BUT FOR SOME
REASON THIS PROJECT DOESN&apos;T GET
BUILT THAT ANOTHER SITE PLAN
WOULD COME IN.
THE OTHER THING THAT WE HAVEN&apos;T
HEARD TOO MUCH YET AND THAT I
WANTED TO MAKE SURE AND THERE
IS ASSOCIATED WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS AND
THAT IS VERY CLEARLY SPELLED
OUT.
SO THE SOLAR THE ALL ELECTRIC,
THOSE THINGS ARE NO MATTER WHAT
HAPPENS LIKE THAT IS NOW TIED
THE PUDI REGULATIONS WHICH I
WANT TO THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; WE YOU MAY HAVE READ IN THE
NEWSPAPER KIND OF OFTEN HAVE TO
PULL DEVELOPERS ALONG AND IT&apos;S
REALLY HEARTENING TO SEE A
PROJECT COME BEFORE US THAT HAS
NOT JUST CONSIDERED ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES BUT AN ALL ELECTRIC
SYSTEM.
I&apos;M CURIOUS ABOUT HOW
PARTICULARLY ASSOCIATED WITH
THAT WHAT YOU SEE AS THE MARKET
LIKE HOW COME YOU SEE THIS AS
VIABLE AND WE&apos;RE HEARING FROM
OTHERS THAT IT&apos;S NOT?
&gt;&gt; OH, THAT&apos;S A GOOD QUESTION.
YOU KNOW, I THINK WHERE EVERY
DEVELOPER PROBABLY APPROACHES A
PROJECT WITH A DIFFERENT PRO
FORMA AND SET OF GOALS AND WE
JUST FELT LIKE THIS WAS
ATTAINABLE WITH OUR CURRENT PRO
FORMA AND THAT WE COULD MAKE IT
WORK SO AND YOU&apos;RE NOT WORRIED
ABOUT LOSING RENTERS BECAUSE
OF THEIR ELECTRIC BILLS?
&gt;&gt; ALWAYS A CONCERN OF COURSE,
BUT THAT&apos;S WHERE THE GEOTHERMAL
DISCUSSION REALLY KIND OF SET
IN THAT WE COULD YOU KNOW, WE
HAD HEARD THAT YES.
THE ELECTRIC BILLS ARE
GENERALLY HIGHER BECAUSE OF ,
YOU KNOW, THE ALL
ELECTRIFICATION AND SO MAYBE WE
CAN OFFSET THAT WITH THE
GEOTHERMAL FEASIBLE.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, OVER A LONG
ENOUGH TIME PERIOD, YOU KNOW,
THE FINANCIALS WORK SO AND
YOU&apos;RE NOT WORRIED ABOUT
GETTING FINANCING FOR THIS
BECAUSE SOME BANKERS ARE NOT
GOING TO THINK THAT YOU&apos;RE NOT
GOING TO GET RID OF YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S PRIMARILY A HUD BASED
LENDING, YOU KNOW, SO THERE&apos;S A
40 YEAR ARM ON THAT AND THEY
GIVE YOU TWO ADDITIONAL YEARS
FOR CONSTRUCTION.
SO AGAIN, ADDITIONAL TWELVE
YEARS HELPS THE PRO FORMA GREAT
.
I&apos;M CURIOUS WILL THERE BE ANY
NATURAL GAS HOOK UP HERE?
&gt;&gt; WILL YOU HAVE A CONNECTION
THERE TO THE ONLY POSSIBLE NEED
WE WOULD NEED IS IF THE FLOW
TEST FOR WATER WERE TO NOT BE
SUFFICIENT WHICH IN TALKING TO
FIRE MARSHAL REDMAN IT&apos;S MORE
THAN ADEQUATE AND THEN WE WOULD
NEED IT TO FOR THE FIRE TO HAVE
A WORKING PUMP FOR THE FIRE
SUPPRESSION BECAUSE WE CAN&apos;T
USE A BATTERY FOR THAT FOR
COAT .
&gt;&gt; OH, THAT SEEMS LIKE
CODE NEEDS TO CHANGE.
SO THAT WOULD BE THE ONLY
REASON THAT WE WOULD HAVE TO
BUT BUT OTHERWISE IT&apos;S JUST NOT
NECESSARY.
&gt;&gt; OK, AND JUST NOT FOR YOU BUT
FOR STAFF IN THE FUTURE.
I THINK TO THE EXTENT I REALLY
WANT TO LOOK INTO THIS
CODE ISSUE BUT I&apos;M SORRY BUT
ALSO LIKE FOR AS WE&apos;RE TALKING
TO FUTURE PETITIONERS
ESPECIALLY ABOUT ELECTRIC AND
AS WE&apos;RE THINKING ABOUT WHERE
HOW
WE&apos;RE THINKING ABOUT THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT&apos;S GOING IN
THIS IDEA OF LIKE NOT HAVING A
NATURAL GAS HOOKUP THIS NOT
THIS ISSUE WITH STANDING NOT
STANDING IN MY WAY HERE.
BUT I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S JUST
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WOULD
GIVE PEOPLE FURTHER
COMFORT THAT THERE&apos;S NOT GOING
TO BE SOME WAY THAT NATURAL GAS
WOULD BE SNUCK IN IN THE FUTURE
ANYWAY.
THAT&apos;S THAT CODE ISSUE IS VERY
INTERESTING.
OK, LET&apos;S SEE.
I ALSO HAD A QUESTION ABOUT THE
INTENTION FOR NINETEEN TWENTY
ONE KELVIN BUT IT SOUNDS TO ME
LIKE ACTUALLY WHAT YOU&apos;RE
PRACTICING HERE IS A BIT OF A
LITTLE BIT LIKE CLUSTER
DEVELOPMENT.
YOU&apos;VE GOT YOU&apos;VE GOT A LARGER
SITE AND SO YOU&apos;RE TAKING KIND
OF THE DENSITY I&apos;M SEEING SOME
NODS IN CASE YOU CAN&apos;T SEE THIS
THE DENSITY THAT WOULD BE
ALLOWED ACROSS THAT ACREAGE
PUTTING IT ON THE PART THAT IS
NOT LIKE THAT&apos;S NOT WETLANDS
AND EFFECTIVELY JUST FOR
NEIGHBORS LIKE BECAUSE WE&apos;RE
TRYING THE THE AMOUNT
OF DEVELOPMENT THAT YOU HAVE
HERE TO THE ENTIRE SIZE OF THAT
ACREAGE HAS THE EFFECT OF NOT
ALLOWING DEVELOPMENT ON THAT
KELVIN PARCEL.
SO IN SOME WAYS IT&apos;S THIS IS
LIKE PRESERVING MAYBE FOR THE
FUTURE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S EXACTLY RIGHT.
AND ALSO IS THERE ANY IS THERE
ANY LOOPHOLE IN THE POD THAT
WOULD EFFECTIVELY WHAT AM I
READING THAT RIGHT AND THE
INTENTION IN THAT I THINK THAT
YOU&apos;RE READING THAT RIGHT THAT
THAT THE PAD THE RIGS DON&apos;T
HAVE LANGUAGE THAT EXPLICITLY
ACCOMMODATES THAT THAT KIND
OF ADDITIONAL SQUARE SQUARE
FOOTAGE OF USE.
&gt;&gt; OK, AND THEN AGAIN THE KIND
OF OPEN SPACE AREA THAT&apos;S
REQUIRED THERE GETTING THAT ON
THE PART THAT&apos;S OFF OF CALVERT.
SO TO JUST BE CLEAR LIKE THAT
HAS TO STAY OPEN SPACE IN ORDER
TO BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE
ZONING ORDINANCE.
&gt;&gt; YES.
AND I WANT TO ADD THAT ANY
AMENDMENT TO A PVD GOES DOWN
BEFORE YOU ALL THE WAY BACK TO
CITY COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; IT IS A REZONING AND SO IT
GOES TO CITY COUNCIL.
YES.
YEAH.
SO THIS IS ALSO WHY WE LOOK AT
THIS NOW BECAUSE WE ARE WRITING
THIS AND FOR A LONG TIME THE
FINAL THING THAT I&apos;M GOING TO
PUT OUT THERE AND MAYBE IF THE
NEXT PERSON IS AN ARCHITECT TO
ADDRESS I NOTICED IN THE IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS AND EVEN IN
THE PRESENTATION THERE WAS A
TALK ABOUT THIS AS THE FACADE
AND I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THAT IS
BUT I AND WE HAVEN&apos;T TALKED
ABOUT IT ON PLANNING COMMISSION
IN A WHILE.
BUT ONCE UPON A TIME IT CAME UP
A LOT AND IT ALSO CAME UP AS
SOMETHING THAT WE DIDN&apos;T WANT
AND I JUST LOOKED AND WE DON&apos;T
ALLOW IT DOWNTOWN AND SO PUMPED
THAT TO MARKET TO SAY IS THAT A
GOOD THING THAT WE ARE SAYING
EXPLICITLY IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
THAT THIS IS ALLOWED AS AS
BUILDING MATERIAL SO SO I&apos;M
GOING TO DO THAT.
BUT ALL THINGS CONSIDERED I I
REALLY APPRECIATE WHAT THE
BALANCING ACT THAT&apos;S DONE HERE
THE I MEAN THIS IDEA KIND OF OF
PRESERVING SOME PART OF THE
CITY AND TAKING THAT
DEVELOPMENT AND PUTTING IT ON I
MEAN THIS IS THIS IS THIS IS
KIND OF A MAIN CORRIDOR HERE
COMING INTO THE CITY DOING THAT
WITH ONE KAPUTT AND LESS
PARKING THAN WHAT THAN WHAT
SOME LESS THAN ONE PARKING SPOT
PER UNIT.
I MEAN AGAIN, I THINK YOU KNOW
THAT THERE ARE DIFFERING
OPINIONS ABOUT PARKING HERE BUT
I THINK THAT KIND OF I REALLY
APPRECIATE THE WAY YOU&apos;VE
BALANCED THAT AND PARTICULARLY
I APPRECIATE THE NOT HAVING TO
TWIST ARMS OR PULL TEETH
ASSOCIATED WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS.
THANK YOU.
I HOPE GEOTHERMAL WORKS OUT
HERE BUT ALSO I&apos;M REALLY
COMFORTABLE THAT THIS PROJECT
IS ONE THAT SET FOR THE FUTURE
AS IS AND I THINK THAT
GEOTHERMAL MAKE ONLY MORE
AFFORDABLE IF IT WORKS OUT AND
ONE THAT YOU KNOW, PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO LIVE IN A SUSTAINABLE
BUILDING WILL LOOK TOWARDS
UNCIRCULATED.
DO YOU WANT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMENTS ON ON FS?
&gt;&gt; YES.
SO I MAY NOT BE A LICENSED
ARCHITECT OVER HISER IS BUT I
CAN SPEAK TO THE BENEFITS
OF THIS AS WELL AS OUR
INTENTION OF IT BEING SOMEWHAT
FLEXIBLE.
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING THIS BECAUSE IT
GIVES YOU OUR VALUES SO IT
GIVES YOU A BETTER ENVELOPE
INSULATION.
IT&apos;S BASICALLY A FOAM WITH A
SORT OF STUCCO THAT&apos;S AND IT&apos;S
A PERSONALIZED SYSTEM.
SO THERE HAVE BEEN
CONVERSATIONS PREVIOUSLY ABOUT
THE WEATHERING OF THIS AND SO
WE ARE LIMITING IF WE ARE GOING
TO CHOOSE THIS TO THE TOP FLOOR
OF THE BUILDING, THIS WOULD
MAKE IT EASY TO IF WE NEEDED TO
REPAINT OR IF WE NEEDED TO
PATCH OR FIX IT IS ONLY A
SINGLE FLOOR SIGNIFICANTLY LESS
MAINTENANCE.
IT&apos;S NOT COMING CLOSE TO THE
GROUND SO WE DON&apos;T HAVE ANY
WATER POSSIBLY INFILTRATING
FROM BELOW AND WHERE ARE OUR
COMPROMISES?
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S IT&apos;S BETWEEN ECUS AND
STUCCO COMPLETELY DEPENDING ON
THE COST OF IT BUT IT JUST
MAKES THE IT JUST GIVES YOU
SOME MORE VALUE WHICH IS REALLY
NICE FOR THE ELECTRICITY COSTS.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S OUR OUR THOUGHT
PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; THANKS BECAUSE WE JUST
FINISHED THAT.
I WILL ALSO SAY WE ALSO DON&apos;T
ALLOW VINYL SIDING WITH OUR
ARCHITECT TELLS US IS IS TENDS
TO HAVE A LOT OF LIFE IN IT AND
THERE CAN BE A LOT
OF SUSTAINABILITY BENEFITS
VINYL EVEN THOUGH THERE IS NOT
I GUESS SO I&apos;LL JUST SAY THAT
THIS IS ONE WHERE WHERE IT JUST
CAUGHT MY EYE AND MAYBE KIND
OF WHAT PEOPLE PREFER FOR SOME
REASONS LIKE WE MIGHT WANT TO
RECONSIDER FOR OTHER REASONS IN
TERMS OF HOW PRESCRIPTIVE WE
ARE ABOUT MATERIALS THAT ARE
USED.
SO THANKS SURVEY DID YOU DID
YOU WANT TO WEIGH IN?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT ON THE DESIGN REVIEW
BOARD FOR A REASON I THE OTHER
WAY LIKE I AGREE IT HAS ITS
PROS AND CONS RELATIVE TO
INSTANTLY LIKE THERE IS AN EASE
OF MAINTENANCE ACTUALLY AND THE
ECONOMY OF MAINTENANCE WHEN
REQUIRED AS WELL.
I HAVE SOME PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS LIKE TO THE BUILDING
IT ALSO IS AN ECONOMICAL
MATERIAL WHICH YOU&apos;LL SEE
REQUIRES BUT WHEN WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
DENSITY AND TRYING TO MEET
CERTAIN MARKETS WE WANT
CONSTRUCTION COSTS.
I MEAN WE&apos;VE SEEN THIS FOR THE
THIS PROJECT COME BEFORE US
OVER THE PAST YEAR AND A HALF
AND I&apos;M SURE YOUR CONSTRUCTION
PRICES HAVE INFLATED AND MAKE
THIS PROJECT CONTINUE TO BE
POSSIBLE.
THESE ARE THE TYPES
OF MATERIALS THAT MIGHT NEED TO
KIND OF HAVE THE COMPROMISES IN
THE PROJECT.
SO ON THAT FRONT I AM FINE.
IT&apos;S REALLY I WOULD SAY ABOUT
THE APPLICATION MORE THAN
ANYTHING I CAN GIVE YOU THE
PROS AND CONS TO A PROJECT
DESIGN.
OK, CAN ANYBODY ELSE CAN I KEEP
GOING?
&gt;&gt; OH YEAH.
OH I&apos;M SORRY I&apos;M SORRY.
I WAS CONFUSED ABOUT THE WAY I
WILL ADD THAT YOU CAN DO DIESEL
OR PROPANE OR PAIN STORAGE TANK
TO BE FOR AN ONSITE GENERATOR
IF YOUR BATTERIES DON&apos;T SUPPLY
SO THAT YOU DON&apos;T HAVE A GAS
CONNECTION FOR THE
CODE REQUIREMENT AND SO THAT
WOULD ELIMINATE AND WOULD HAVE
A RESERVE OF THIS FUEL TANK TO
MEET THOSE EMERGENCY
REQUIREMENTS.
SO THAT&apos;S A WAY TO GET AROUND
THAT ACTUAL GAS CONNECTION AND
THE KIND OF I GUESS TS
OF TRYING TO USE IT FOR
SOMETHING ELSE IN THE COURSE.
&gt;&gt; I LOVE POKING HOLES IN
THINGS TO AND REALLY KIND
OF WHAT I ACTUALLY COMPARE THIS
TO IS SEE ONE AS WELL AND I
THINK LIKE THIS PARKING RATIO
IS A LITTLE BIT MORE IN TERMS
OF THE FOOTPRINT RATIO THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT FOR SURFACE
PARKING TO WHAT WE&apos;RE LOOKING
AT IN TO SEE ONE SO MORE
PARKING REALLY WOULDN&apos;T MEET
OUR TAXI ONE GOALS IN SEVERAL
WAYS AND WITH THAT WE&apos;RE
LOOKING AT COMPLETEL EXPOSED
PARKING AND I KNOW WHEN WE
LOOKED AT THIS JUST KIND
OF DESIGN REVIEW THERE WAS A
GREEN ROOF AND YOU HAVE A LOT
OF GREEN SPACE.
SO WE&apos;RE UTILIZING THAT FOR
SOLAR AND I THINK I JUST WANT
TO ADD THE TWO COMMENTS.
ONE, BIKES ARE HEAVY SO DOING
WARM OUT MEANS THAT A BIKE ROOM
MIGHT NOT BE VERY USABLE IF
YOU&apos;RE FUNCTIONING AT FOUR
BIKES.
SO I WOULD ACTUALLY RECOMMEND
LOOKING AT MAYBE CLASS B BIKE
PARKING FOR YOU BIKES TO
INCLUDE IN THE SITE AND ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT WE DO HAVE
OUR ORDINANCE AS WELL STEP THEM
WRONG IS YOU DO NOT NEED TO
COME BACK TO FORSAKE PLANNING
IF YOU WANT TO DO
COVERED PARKING WITH SOLAR
PANELS SO YOU CAN BASICALLY
HAVE CAR PARTS WITH ADDITIONAL
SOLAR PANELS TO PROVIDE THE
RESIDENTS OR ANY STAFF ON SITE
WHO DON&apos;T WANT SNOW ON THEIR
CAR AND TO COLLECT MORE ENERGY
ON SITE WITH SOLAR WHICH WOULD
ALSO BE NICE COVERAGE FOR BIKES
TO HAVE THAT CLASS BE PARKING
AS WELL.
SO I THINK THOSE ARE MY MAIN
AND SO YOU KNOW BUT SOME OF THE
GENERAL KIND FORM AND FUNCTION
RELATIVE TO TAXI ONE TO SEE
WHAT WOULD WE GET IF THIS WAS
THAT INSTEAD OF A PUDI BUT
OVERALL I WOULD SAY YEAH,
THERE&apos;S SOME IMPROVEMENT ON THE
PART AREA.
WE UNDERSTAND THE KIND
OF BALANCING ACT THAT YOU&apos;RE
PLAYING BUT JUST FOR YOUR
KNOWLEDGE IN THE FUTURE THAT IS
A POSSIBILITY CONTINUE TO
IMPROVE IT.
THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THE PROJECT.
THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER CLARKE
THEN COMMISSIONER KELLY JUST
ADD ONTO THE PARKING COMMENT.
I WAS JUST I DON&apos;T KNOW IF IT&apos;S
OUTSIDE OUR SCOPE WHAT WE CAN
REQUIRE BUT I&apos;M CURIOUS IF
YOU&apos;VE LOOKED IN IT TO ANY HEAT
ISLAND STRATEGIES FOR THE
PARKING LOT.
I NOTICED THERE&apos;S JUST KIND
OF THOSE TWO SMALL ISLANDS JUST
CURIOUS IF ANYTHING LIKE LIGHT
SURFACES, YOU KNOW, AND IF
ANYTHING&apos;S BEEN LOOKED INTO AND
IF NOT JUST ENCOURAGE YOU TO
MAYBE LOOK AT PARKING LOT
DESIGNED AND IMPERVIOUS
SURFACES WHERE POSSIBLE STUFF
LIKE THAT.
DID YOU WANT TO SPEAK THERE?
I KNOW THE LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE IS CONSIDERED
VARIOUS OPPORTUNITIES WITH THE
LANDSCAPE ISLANDS.
I CAN SPEAK TO THE FACT THAT
WITH OUR PARKING LOT LAYOUT
WE&apos;VE REALLY WORKED TO CONDENSE
A LOT OF DIFFERENT ELEMENTS
OF THE SITE INCLUDING
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND
UTILITY AND CONVEYANCE
OF STORMWATER AND THAT BEING
OUR MAIN AREA TO COLLECT
STORMWATER IN UNDERGROUND
DOESN&apos;T GIVE US A LOT OF SPACE
INTERNAL TO THE PARKING LOT FOR
TREES.
SO WE TRIED TO PRESERVE TREES
ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE PARKING
LOT AND SO ON.
I CAN&apos;T SPEAK TO WHETHER OR NOT
THE DESIGN TEAM HAS LOOKED AT
OR SURFACES AND SO ON FOR THE
PARKING LOT.
BUT THERE IS SOMETHING
CERTAINLY WE CAN LOOK INTO FOR
THAT
.
ANYTHING ELSE YOU CAN REALLY?
SURE.
THANK YOU TO EVERYONE THAT
SPOKE.
THANK YOU.
I THINK CIVIC ENGAGEMENT IS
REALLY IMPORTANT SO I JUST WANT
TO RECOGNIZE YOU GUYS SHOWING
UP AND GIVING US YOUR SIDE
OF THINGS AND CHANGES I THINK
OFTEN DIFFICULT AND CHANGE
GROWTH ISN&apos;T EASY.
SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
PETITIONER IF YOU COULD PLEASE
CONFIRM SO THERE ISN&apos;T ANY
PROPOSED ACCESS TO CALVIN
FORMAL OR INFORMAL.
SO EVEN IF THERE&apos;S NOT LIKE A
DIRECT WAY TO A I MEAN THERE
WOULD BE NO RESIDENTS ACCESSING
THE SO OBVIOUSLY WE OWN THE
PARCEL.
WE MAY NEED TO ACCESS IT
OURSELVES FOR OWNERSHIP BUT NOT
FOR THE RESIDENTS WHO ARE FOR
CONSTRUCTION.
GOTCHA.
UNDERSTOOD ON THE STAGING FOR
CONSTRUCTION, COULD YOU CONFIRM
THAT IT&apos;S COMING OFF OF MAPLE?
I&apos;M SORRY I&apos;M SORRY IN YOUR
STAGING FOR CONSTRUCTION.
YES.
AND THE THOROUGHFARE
OF CONSTRUCTION ACCESS IS GOING
TO BE OFF MAPLE AND OFF NO
OTHER ROAD.
&gt;&gt; CAN YOU CONFIRM THAT?
YES, THAT IS MY CURRENT
UNDERSTANDING, YES.
OK, GREAT.
&gt;&gt; AND THEN ANY DISRUPTION
OF SERVICE IS THERE ANYTHING
THAT&apos;S ANTICIPATED FOR ANY
OF THE NEIGHBORS?
I DON&apos;T THINK SO.
I DON&apos;T THINK THE ROAD IS
CURRENTLY YOU KNOW, OTHER THAN
ELECTRIC AND GAS.
I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S BEING
SERVICED BY ANY OTHER UTILITY.
GOCHA, ARE THERE ANY IMPACTS
OF WOODROW BEING CONTEMPLATED
HERE JUST TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE&apos;RE YOU KNOW, NINETEEN TWENTY
ONE SHARES ACCESS OFF
OF WOODROW BUT IT WOULD
PROBABLY BE PRIMARILY OFF
OF CALVIN GOSIA AND I THINK THE
ONLY THING THAT WE&apos;RE PROPOSING
THERE AND FEEL FREE TO JUMP
KNOW SOME TREE PLANTINGS, YOU
KNOW BUILDING OF A SMALL FIRM
AND YOU KNOW THAT&apos;S THE ONLY
CONSTRUCTION TRAFFIC YOU KNOW,
AS RELATED TO THAT IN OUR SITE
.
GOSIA UNDERSTOOD THAT THAT
HELPS IN EVALUATING YOU GUYS.
I THINK OBVIOUSLY THE TWO MAIN
QUESTIONS WE HAVE TO ANSWER ARE
CAN THIS BE ACCOMPLISHED IN ANY
OTHER ZONING
CODE RECLASSIFICATION?
I THINK THE ANSWER IS NO JUST
BASED ON THE UNIQUE
CHARACTERISTICS.
THE OTHER QUESTION THAT WE HAVE
TO CONTEMPLATE HERE DO THE
PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS,
DESIGN FEATURES AND AMENITIES
PROVIDE A BENEFICIAL EFFECT FOR
THE CITY?
IS THERE INNOVATION IN LAND USE
AND ARE WE FURTHERING THE
STATED GOALS AND PHYSICAL
CHARACTER OF THE ADOPTED LAND
USE?
SO I DURING THIS PERIOD I DID
REVIEW THE 2009 LAND
DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR THIS
PARTICULAR WEST SUBSECTION.
I DID NOTE THAT THERE IS TO
KIND OF ONE PRIMARY AND AN
ALTERNATIVE WHICH IS EITHER
SINGLE FAMILY OR A
COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT
PACKAGE.
I BELIEVE THIS COMPLIES WITH
THE COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT
PACKAGE.
I THINK THE CONCEPT
OF STRENGTHENING NON MOTORIZED
TRANSIT IS VERY IMPORTANT.
I HEAR YOU GUYS ON TRAFFIC
CONCERNS.
I DID JUST CHECK AND I&apos;M SORRY
SOME COGGS TRAFFIC IS THE
AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC OUT.
IT&apos;S ABOUT TWENTY EIGHT HUNDRED
CARS.
SEVENTY NINE UNITS, NINETY FIVE
BEDS WE&apos;RE TALKED ABOUT LIKE
MAYBE A TWO AND A HALF PERCENT
.
IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO BE A
SIGNIFICANT INCREASE WHEN
THERE&apos;S TWENTY EIGHT HUNDRED
CARS.
TOM DID YOU HAVE SOMETHING TO
ADD.
I TRY TO REWRITE WITH TWENTY
EIGHT HUNDRED AND THEN REALLY
ON THE ROUNDABOUT THERE&apos;S ABOUT
EIGHT THOUSAND CARS REVERSING
THERE ON AN AVERAGE DAILY
TRAFFIC.
SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE TO
INDICATE THE RELATIVE SCALE
OF ADDING EIGHTY UNITS BECAUSE
I SEVENTY NINE I JUST WANT TO
BE AGAIN VERY MINDFUL BECAUSE
IT IS IT&apos;S A LOT TO COME HERE
AND SPEAK AND YOU KNOW TO BE
CIVICALLY ENGAGED.
SO AGAIN I REALLY APPRECIATE
THAT THE WAY WE CAN IMPROVE
THIS ESPECIALLY GIVEN THE JOBS
AND HOUSING AND BALANCE IS
STRENGTHENING ON MOTORIZED
TRANSIT.
SO I THINK THE CONTRIBUTION TO
THE OUR CROSSWALKS THAT&apos;S
RAPIDLY FLASHING BEACON
BASICALLY CROSSWALKS IS
IMPORTANT.
CONNECTIVITY AND POROSITY TO
BIKE LANES IS ALSO CRITICAL.
I THINK SOME OF THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS SPOKE ABOUT THAT.
SO I THINK THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
ACTUALLY A REALLY USEFUL THING
TO TRY AND ENCOURAGE.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE FOLKS THAT IF
THIS PASSES AND THIS GOES TO
CITY COUNCIL, THIS ISN&apos;T THE
LAST STOP THAT THEY HAVE A
SECOND MEANS A NONMILITARY
MEANS OF ACCESSING AMENITIES
DOWN ON STADIUM SO OVERALL THIS
ATTRACTS A LOT OF BOXES FOR YOU
HAVE 15 PERCENT AFFORDABLE
UNITS TWELVE IT&apos;S FULLY
ELECTRIC.
YOU GUYS ARE EXPLORING
GEOTHERMAL VERTICAL WELLS.
THEY&apos;RE USING A BUFFER NINETEEN
TWENTY ONE KALVIN SO IN
EVALUATING THIS FROM A POD
STANDPOINT I DO FIND THAT THIS
COMPLIES WITH PRETTY MUCH
EVERYTHING THAT IS INTENDED TO
BE THE PURPOSE OF PODS SO I
WILL BE SUPPORTING THIS WHILE
MAKING SURE THAT WE RECOGNIZE
ALL OF THE CONCERNS THE
RESIDENTS HAVE CHANGES AND EASY
AND I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
RESPECT THE VOICES THAT WE HEAR
HERE TONIGHT.
SO YEP, THAT&apos;S IT FOR ME.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE?
I JUST HAVE I AGREE WITH WHAT
MY COLLEAGUES ARE SAYING.
I FEEL VERY GRATEFUL THAT
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO YOU&apos;RE REALLY
DOING IT FOR SUSTAINABILITY.
IT&apos;S JUST IT&apos;S REALLY NICE FOR
US TO HAVE SOMEBODY THAT&apos;S KIND
OF LEADING THE WAY WITH THIS
INSTEAD OF US HAVING TO KIND
OF CHASE PEOPLE.
I MY ONLY QUESTION IS THAT YOU
HAVE THESE EXTRA PARCEL&apos;S AND
IT LOOKS LIKE THE ONE ON THE
KIND OF FURTHEST ONE WEST HAS
SOME REALLY QUITE BIG BEAUTIFUL
TREES IN IT.
AND I SEE THAT YOUR CURRENT
KIND OF PEDESTRIAN AMENITY ZONE
THAT&apos;S OUTSIDE THERE&apos;S A
COURTYARD IN FRONT OF THE
BUILDING TO THE SOUTH BUT
THERE&apos;S ALSO THIS LITTLE ZONE
TO THE NORTH AND BECAUSE YOU
HAVE THIS POINT WHERE ALL
OF YOUR PROPERTIES COME
TOGETHER, IS THERE ANY WAY TO
ALLOW FOR A PATH FOR RESIDENTS
OF ACCESS JUST TO WALK THROUGH
THE WOODS AND IT&apos;S SOMETHING
THAT, YOU KNOW, MAYBE THE
NEIGHBORS PROBABLY THEY
CURRENTLY WALK THROUGH THOSE
WOODS WITH IT.
BUT THIS IS A PROPERTY THAT YOU
OWN AND IT SEEMS LIKE IT COULD
BE A REALLY GORGEOUS AREA TO BE
ABLE TO TAKE A WALK IF THEY
WANT TO.
AND I&apos;M JUST WONDERING IF THERE
YOU KNOW, IF YOU OF ALL HAVE
THOUGHT ABOUT THAT AT ALL
BECAUSE IT&apos;S AN AREA THAT YOU
KNOW THAT IS PART NOW PART
OF THIS PUDI AND IT&apos;S SOMETHING
THAT YOUR RESIDENTS COULD
POTENTIALLY ENJOY AND YOU KNOW,
WHO KNOWS, MAYBE OTHER
NEIGHBORS WOULD BE ABLE TO
ENJOY WALKING THROUGH THERE NOW
AS WELL.
SO I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS IF YOU ALL
CONSIDERED THAT AT ALL.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
SO WE HAVE LOOKED AT THE
OPPORTUNITY WE ARE USING THAT
AREA TO PLANT SOME TREES AND TO
SPOIL SOME SOIL SO THAT WE&apos;RE
NOT HAULING THAT OFF SITE AS
WELL.
WE ARE WORKING WITH THEM.
SO THERE&apos;S ANOTHER COMPONENT TO
THIS PROJECT THAT IS A IN MY
OPINION A COMMUNITY BENEFIT.
THERE&apos;S A WATER MAIN THAT IS
BEING EXTENDED ALONG FROM PHOS
THROUGH I&apos;M RIGHT AWAY NORTH
OF OUR BUILDING.
WE&apos;VE BEEN WORKING WITH THEM TO
AT LEAST GET TO THE POINT WHERE
THEY&apos;RE READY FOR DETAILED
PLANS OF THAT AND THAT WOULD BE
A TIME WHEN MAYBE WE COULD ASK
FOR AN OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE
GAINED ACCESS TO THAT PROPERTY.
WE DON&apos;T WANT TO DISTURB OUR
NEIGHBORS BY ACCESSING THROUGH
THEIR PROPERTY OR DOWN THEIR
STREETS AND SO ON.
SO IF THAT BECAME AN
OPPORTUNITY FROM THAT THEN
MAYBE WE COULD HAVE A TRAIL
WITH A LOOP THERE OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT.
BUT OUR GOAL RIGHT NOW IS FOR
THAT TO BE A BUFFER FOR OUR
NEIGHBORS TO THE FOURTEEN ON
THE RAMPS.
OK, ALREADY ARE WE READY FOR A
VOTE MAYBE THE MOTIONS ARE ON
MODIFIED FROM AS PRESENTED
COMMISSIONER RANDALL?
&gt;&gt; YES.
COMMISSIONER SILVER.
YES.
COMMISSIONER JOSH YES.
COMMISSIONER LEE YES.
COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
COMMISSIONER WHITE YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
MOTION CARRIES THIS
RECOMMENDATION ALL EVENTS TO
THE CITY COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, UM UH THERE&apos;S ONE MORE
PIECE OF OUR REGULAR BUSINESS
HERE.
DO PEOPLE FEEL LIKE THEY NEED A
BREAK BEFORE THIS ONE OR I&apos;M
SAYING YES AND NO ANY
YO YO
HE&apos;LL JUST QUIETLY SUFFER FIVE
FIVE MINUTE BREAK.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
WE&apos;LL COME BACK AT QUARTER TO
NINE THEN
.
OK, LET&apos;S GET BACK TO OUR
MEETING.
&gt;&gt; THEY&apos;VE GOT TO BE THAT YEAH
WE ARE NOW ON ITEM EIGHT SEE IF
FOLKS ARE WE&apos;RE STARTING THE
MEETING AGAIN SO IF
CONVERSATIONS COULD MOVE TO THE
SIDE EXCUSE ME PUBLIC WE&apos;RE
STARTING THE MEETING.
&gt;&gt; SO IF YOU ALL WANT TO
CONTINUE TALKING IF YOU COULD
ALREADY SO THIS IS FOR ITEM
EIGHT SEE TWO TWO ONE FIVE SIX
ONE WHICH IS THREE EIGHT SIX
ZERO RESEARCH PARK DRIVE
SPECIAL EXEMPTION USE AND SITE
PLAN.
THIS IS A DESIGNATED MARIJUANA
CONSUMPTION FACILITY THAT IS
BEING ADDED TO AN EXISTING
PROVISIONING CENTER.
&gt;&gt; UM, LET&apos;S SEE DO WE HAVE A
PETITIONER WHO PRESENTS AN YOU
HAVE UP TO TEN MINUTES TO TELL
US ABOUT YOUR PROJECT.
GOOD EVENING MISSION AND THANK
YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
I&apos;M BENJAMIN JOEL BESIDE ME IS
THE APPLICANT MR. JARBOE.
I&apos;M LOCATED AT THREE THREE FOUR
EAST WASHINGTON STREET ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
WE BELIEVE THAT THE APPLICATION
MATERIAL SUBMITTED REALLY DO
SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
WE DID WANT TO TOUCH ON JUST A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS THAT MR.
CHIANG DID ASK US.
HE WAS NOT AVAILABLE TONIGHT.
ONE OF THOSE WAS GOING TO BE ON
ANY ODORS THAT MAY BE PRODUCED
BY PEOPLE CONSUMING IN THE
FACILITY.
WE DO UTILIZE CARBON FILTERS
AND NEGATIVE AIR PRESSURE THAT
THEREFORE ALL THE AIR GETS
TREATED AND AT ALL NONE OF IT
GOES THROUGH THE DOORS.
SO BASICALLY IF YOU THINK
NEGATIVE AIR PRESSURE IT&apos;S AIR
FROM THE OUTSIDE IT ALL GETS
TREATED AND THEN IT GETS
RELEASED THROUGH THE TOP AFTER
IT&apos;S GONE THROUGH A FILTRATION
PROCESS IN ORDER TO ALLEVIATE
ANY POSSIBLE ODOR ISSUES.
YOU KNOW THE AND THIS IS ONE
POINT THAT IT THAT I&apos;M NOT
GOING TO GO ON THE THE FACILITY
WILL BE WITHIN THOSE HOURS
OPERATING IN THOSE HOURS AS
CALLED FOR IN CHAPTER NINETY
SIX WHICH IS ONLY UNTIL 9:00
P.M. I WILL SAY RIGHT NOW IF
THERE&apos;S ANY WAY FOR THIS
COMMISSION TO APPROVE US TO GO
PAST THOSE HOURS THAT WOULD NOT
BE IN LINE WITH THE ORDINANCE.
BUT I DO BELIEVE THAT&apos;S ONE
OF THOSE THINGS THAT&apos;S JUST IN
THE ORDINANCE THAT BASICALLY
BASICALLY LEFT OVER FROM PAST
OF NOT HAVING PROVISIONING OPEN
CENTERS OPEN TILL 9:00 PM IF IT
DESIGNATED CONSUMPTION LOUNGE
WERE OPEN PAST 9:00 P.M. THAT
STILL DOES NOT MEAN THAT PEOPLE
CAN GET CANIBUS AFTER 9:00 P.M.
THEY&apos;D ONLY BE ABLE TO CONSUME
IT BECAUSE WE STILL HAVE THOSE
HOURS THAT WOULD GO AFTER THAT
FACILITY.
OTHER THAN THAT, WE THINK THIS
IS A PRETTY GOOD USE TO PUT IN
THIS AREA.
OBVIOUSLY IT&apos;S ADJACENT.
IT CONNECTS TO THE PROVISIONING
CENTER SO WE BELIEVE AGAIN
THOSE MATERIALS SPEAK FOR
THEMSELVES.
WE&apos;RE HERE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE A STAFF PRESENTATION
?
WE DO HAVE A STAFF PRESENTATION
.
I WANTED TO THANK THE
PETITIONER FOR MENTIONING THE
FACT THAT STAFF HAD ASKED FOR
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
REGARDING THE OPERATION OF THE
CONSUMPTION FACILITY.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
PRESENTING THAT.
I WOULD LIKE TO SUMMARIZE THE
STAFF RECOMMENDATION FIRST
INDICATING THAT CHRISTIAN WAS
THE PLANNER WHO WORKED ON THIS
PROJECT.
CHRIS IS OUT OF THE OFFICE THIS
WEEK SO I VOLUNTEERED TO GIVE
THE PRESENTATION STAFF
RECOMMENDATION STAFF RECOMMENDS
THAT THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION BE
APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
SUBJECT TO PLANNING COMMISSION
CONSIDERATION BECAUSE THE
PROPOSED SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
IS OF SUCH SIZE, LOCATION AND
CHARACTER HAS TO BE COMPATIBLE
WITH THE ZONING DISTRICT IN
WHICH THE SITE IS SITUATED AND
THE LOCATION AND SIZE OF THE
PROPOSED USE ITS NATURE AND
INTENSITY, THE SITE LAYOUT AND
ACCESS AND EFFECT ON THE
PROPOSED USE UM ON PUBLIC
SERVICES WOULD NOT BE HAZARDOUS
OR INCONVENIENT TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD NOR UNDULY
CONFLICT WITH THE NORMAL
TRAFFIC OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHTY.
SO THIS
IS WHEN WE HAVE A
PUBLIC HEARING THIS OPPORTUNITY
FOR PEOPLE TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS PROJECT?
WELL, FIRST CALL AN INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT OF WHICH THERE ARE NONE
AT THIS POINT.
SO WE WILL BE LOOKING TO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS WHO HAD PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USED TO RAISE HAND FEATURE
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO
FOUR SEVEN AND THEN OUR MEETING
ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME YOU&apos;LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS LYING TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY THAT IS IN
LINE REMOTELY?
THERE IS NOT OK ALL RIGHT.
SO I HAVE THE FUN OF READING
THE I&apos;M SORRY.
OH I&apos;M SORRY.
YOU KNOW WHAT YOU ARE HIDING
BEHIND THE MONITOR.
NO, NO.
FROM MY POINT OF VIEW I&apos;M SORRY
I DIDN&apos;T NOTICE YOU&apos;RE GOOD
THOUGH.
YOU&apos;RE NOT HERE FOR THAT.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
NO, I&apos;M GLAD YOU SAID SOMETHING
BECAUSE HE&apos;S RIGHT IN LINE WITH
MY MY YEAH YEAH THAT&apos;S THANK
YOU COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT.
THAT JUST HAPPENED RIGHT OUT
OF MY LINE OF SIGHT.
OK SO I WILL READ THE MOTION
WHICH IS QUITE LENGTHY WHENEVER
I WILL BE REMINDED I&apos;M SURE
OF THE OLD DAYS OF US PASSING
THE PROVISIONING CENTERS, THE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION AFTER
HEARING ALL INTERESTED PERSONS
AND REVIEWING ALL RELEVANT
INFORMATION INCLUDING AN
ACCOMPANYING SITE PLAN FINDS A
POSITION SUBSTANTIALLY MEETS
THE STANDARDS IN CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT FIVE POINT D SPECIAL
EXCEPTIONS AND SECTION FIVE
POINT ONE SIX POINT THREE POINT
G MARIJUANA FACILITY AND
THEREFORE APPROVES THE THREE
SIX OR RESEARCH PARK DRIVE
SPECIAL EXEMPTION USED FOR
DESIGNATED MARIJUANA
CONSUMPTION FACILITY.
THIS APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS ONE THE
PROPOSED USE WILL BE CONSISTENT
WITH THE C TO BE BUSINESS
DISTRICT ZONING WHICH PROVIDES
FOR RESIDENTIAL OFFICE AND
COMMERCIAL USES INCLUDING
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS FOR
DESIGNATED MARIJUANA
CONSUMPTION FACILITIES TO THE
PROPOSED USE WILL NOT ADVERSELY
IMPACT TRAFFIC PEDESTRIANS,
BICYCLISTS, CIRCULATION OR ROAD
INTERSECTIONS BASED ON LOCATION
S THAT STREET THAT&apos;S DOESN&apos;T
SEEM QUITE RIGHT.
S ASHLEY STREET WHERE ARE WE ON
RESEARCH PARK DRIVE STATION
RESEARCH PARK DRIVE OK SO WE
WILL STRIKE THE RESEARCH S
ATHLETES STREET AND SAY
RESEARCH PARK DRIVE AND I
PRESUME THAT YOU CAN CORRECT
THAT AND THE MOTION PROVIDES
ACCESS TO THE SITE AND THE
PROPOSED USE IS CONSISTENT WITH
OTHER SURROUNDING USES TRAFFIC
IMPACT NUMBER THREE A SITE PLAN
DOCUMENTING THE EXISTING AND
PROPOSED CONDITIONS AT THE SITE
HAS BEEN SUBMITTED AS PART
OF THIS APPLICATION.
NO FOR ZERO THROUGH
DOCUMENTATION SUBMITTED BY THE
PETITIONER REGARDING WASTE
DISPOSAL INVENTORY TRACKING
SECURITY AND OTHER METHODS
OF OPERATION OF THE FACILITY
THAT DOESN&apos;T GET INTO MARIJUANA
CONSUMPTION FACILITY WILL BE
OPERATED IN A MANNER THAT WILL
NOT HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON
THE NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES OR
AREA AND WILL NOT HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL IMPACT ON NATURAL
FEATURES.
THIS SPECIAL EXEMPTION USE
APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS ONE AND
THE PETITIONER ARE OBTAINING
AND MAINTAINING BOTH THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN MARIJUANA LICENSE
AND A CITY OF NO MARIJUANA
PERMIT AND PROVIDING
DOCUMENTATION TO PLANNING
SERVICES WITHIN THREE YEARS.
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL DATE OF THIS PETITION
NO TO THE PETITIONER OPERATING
A MARIJUANA BUSINESS AT THIS
ADDRESS WITHIN THREE YEARS
OF THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL DATE OF THIS PETITION
NOVEMBER THREE THE DESIGNATED
MARIJUANA CONSUMPTION FACILITY
MAY ONLY BE USED BY CUSTOMERS
AND THEIR GUESTS OF THE
PROVISIONING CENTER RETAIL AT
THREE EIGHT SIX OH RESEARCH
PARK DRIVE NUMBER FOUR THE
SPECIAL EXEMPTION EXCEPTION YOU
MAY OCCUPY NO MORE THAN FOUR
THOUSAND FIVE SIXTY SQUARE FEET
AT THREE EIGHT SIX OR RESEARCH
PARK DRIVE AND AT THE END
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVES THE ATTACHED SITE PLAN
WHICH DEMONSTRATES COMPLIANCE
AT THE APPLICABLE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION NEW STANDARDS AS NO
DEVELOPMENT WHICH WOULD
OTHERWISE REQUIRE SITE PLAN
APPROVAL HAS BEEN PROPOSED.
OK, THAT IS THE MOTION MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER, I HAVE A QUESTION
ABOUT THE HOURS I DIDN&apos;T QUITE
FOLLOW SO IF YOU CAN SAY AGAIN
AND THEN I&apos;LL ASK FOR
CLARIFICATION.
SO MY READING IS THAT THE
MOTION THAT WAS READ DOESN&apos;T
SAY ANYTHING ABOUT OUR SYSTEM A
LITTLE CONFUSED.
YEAH.
SO AND THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S PROBABLY A
VESTIGE OF ME COMING UP HERE
FOR FOR A BUNCH OF THE
PROVISIONING CENTER APPROVALS.
BUT BUT WE DO HAVE A AN
ORDINANCE THAT SAYS ALL
FACILITIES MAY NOT BASICALLY BE
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
I THINK BETWEEN EIGHT OR NINE
P.M. AND SEVEN A.M. SO SO THE
WAY THE ORDINANCE IS CURRENTLY
WRITTEN, THE FACILITY CAN&apos;T BE
OPENED AFTER 9:00 P.M. SO SO
THAT WOULD BE THE ONLY THING
THAT WE WOULD BE ASKING TO
CHANGE AS I DON&apos;T THINK IT WAS
REALLY THE INTENT OF ANYBODY TO
TO SHUT DOWN A DESIGNATED
CONSUMPTION FACILITY AT 9:00
P.M. BUT IT MAY HAVE BEEN THE
INTENT TO SHUT DOWN
PROVISIONING CENTERS IN PLACES
THAT ARE ACTUALLY AVAILABLE TO
TO PURCHASE CANNABIS AT AT THAT
TIME IT STAFF IS THAT WITHIN
ZONING OR IS THAT WITHIN
LICENSING?
WITHIN LICENSING.
OK, THANK YOU SO THAT&apos;S NOT IN
OUR PURVIEW.
I WAS GONNA SAY I DON&apos;T
REMEMBER THAT IN OUR ZONING
ORDINANCE SO THAT&apos;S NOT WITHIN
OUR PURVIEW BUT ALSO WHAT I&apos;M
READING IS THAT THE UM IF WE
APPROVE OR YES.
DO WE APPROVE WE RECOMMEND WE
APPROVE THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T SAY
ANYTHING ABOUT OURS IF THAT
CHANGES THEN PRESUMABLY THIS
THOSE HOURS COULD CHANGE TOO.
IS THAT RIGHT?
MR. COOPER?
IF THE SPECIALTY&apos;S ADDED A
SPECIFIC ADDITION THAT
REFLECTED THOSE HOURS THEN THAT
WOULD NOT BE THE CASE.
BUT BY ESSENTIALLY BEING SILENT
,THE REGULATION OF TIME DEFERS
TO THAT CHAPTER CITY CODE .
&gt;&gt; YEAH, AND AND I&apos;M
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT THAT
THERE&apos;S NOT OURS NECESSARILY
STATED IN HERE.
I PERSONALLY AM COMFORTABLE BUT
JUST WANT TO BRING THAT UP FOR
EVERYONE ELSE.
UM OVERALL I&apos;LL JUST SAY LIKE
THE IDEA OF CONSUMPTION
FACILITIES AND PROVISIONING
CENTERS BEING CO-LOCATED OR
NEAR EACH OTHER I THINK MAKES A
LOT OF SENSE.
SO I&apos;M JUST I&apos;M SUPPORTIVE
OF THIS.
I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS.
I THINK THAT I THINK MAYBE IT
WAS IN THE STAFF REPORT THAT
THIS WOULD BE THE SECOND ONE.
BUT I&apos;M CURIOUS IF WE KNOW IF
THAT&apos;S ACTUALLY OPERATIONAL.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS NOT THE FIRST ONE
APPROVED IS NOT OPERATIONAL.
&gt;&gt; OK, BUT IT ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
SO THIS WAS THE THIS SITE WAS
THE FIRST MEETING THAT I
ATTENDED WHEN I WAS APPOINTED
TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
I REMEMBER THIS SITE AND I JUST
ASKED STAFF WHETHER THE
PROVISIONING CENTER IS OPEN
WHICH IT ISN&apos;T.
SO NOW WE ARE BEING ASKED TO
APPROVE THE CONSUMPTION EVEN
THOUGH THE PROVISIONING WAS
NEVER OPEN.
WE ARE WE ALSO HAD A LIST
OF ITEMS THAT WE ASKED THIS
PETITIONER TO DO BUT I DON&apos;T
KNOW WHERE THOSE ARE.
THESE ARE THE THIS
CONVERSATION.
YEAH.
AND SO I I&apos;D JUST LIKE TO GET
SOME CLARITY BECAUSE I AM
CONFUSED.
YEAH.
GOOD MEMORY.
SO THE THE THE PROVISIONING
CENTER IS UNDER A SIMILAR CLOCK
IF YOU WILL THAT THREE ARE THAT
YOU SEE IN THE MOTION THIS
EVENING IT COMES OUT OF OUR
SPECIAL EXCEPTION NEW STANDARDS
WHICH PROVIDES A THREE YEAR
WINDOW FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USED TO BE ESTABLISHED THE
PROVISIONING CENTER RETAILER AT
THAT LOCATION IS ON A SIMILAR
CLOCK THAT HAS TO BE
ESTABLISHED AND OPEN BY AUGUST
3RD.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR IF MY
RECORDS ARE CORRECT AS PART
OF THAT THERE WAS SOME
CONDITIONS THAT THEY HAD
SUBMITTED SOME REVISED
ARCHITECTURAL ELEVATIONS AND A
REVISED SIDEWALK CONNECTION ON
THAT SITE.
THOSE ARE INCORPORATED INTO THE
APPROVED PLAN AND THOSE CHANGES
WILL HAVE TO BE CONCEIVED PRIOR
TO ISSUANCE OF ANY CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY FOR THE
PROVISIONING CENTER.
LIKEWISE BECAUSE THIS APPROVAL
IS TIED TO THE PROVISIONING
CENTER, THOSE WOULD ALSO
CASCADE TO ENSURE THAT THOSE
SAME THINGS ARE OF COURSE
COMPLETED AT THE TIME OCCUPANCY
PERMIT IS GRANTED FOR THIS USE
IF APPROVED BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
SO IF I CAN IF I&apos;M PERMITTED TO
ASK MORE QUESTIONS OF YOU, MR.
LEINERT, SINCE YOU&apos;RE ANSWERING
WE ALSO HAD SOME SITE PLAN
ADJUSTMENTS.
I THINK THERE WAS SOMETHING
RELATED TO WHERE THE WASTE
CONTAINER IS.
THERE WAS LIKE SOME KIND
OF THERE WERE CONCERNS AROUND
THE TREES, THE LIGHTING, THE
SIGNAGE, THE GROUND FLOOR
ACTIVATION AND SO LIKE HOW DOES
THAT ALL FIT INTO WHAT WE&apos;RE
SEEING TODAY?
SO IS THAT ALREADY ON A RIDER
YOU&apos;RE MANAGING THAT THEY THEY
HAVE TO MEET THOSE REQUIREMENTS
ONCE THOSE REQUIREMENTS ARE MET
THEN THIS CONSUMPTION CENTER
COULD OPEN.
BUT IF THOSE PREVIOUS
REQUIREMENTS ARE NOT MET, THEN
THE CONSUMPTION SHOULD WE
APPROVE IT TONIGHT CANNOT OPEN
BECAUSE OF THE CONSUMPTION
FACILITY CAN ONLY BE TIED TO
THE PROVISIONING CENTER.
THEY WOULDN&apos;T BE ABLE TO
OPERATE THAT BUSINESS UNLESS
THOSE CHANGES WERE PROVIDED AS
PART OF THE PROVISIONING AND
OUR APPROVAL AND AND THEN ALL
OF THOSE CHANGES ARE GOING TO
THE PLANNING MANAGER I SO THEY
WON&apos;T COME BACK TO THE TABLE.
CORRECT.
AND THEY&apos;VE BEEN REVIEWED AND
APPROVED.
THEY&apos;VE PROVIDED A MODIFIED
ARCHITECTURAL ELEVATION&apos;S
PROVIDED A MODIFIED SIDEWALK
LAYOUT
.
THERE WAS DISCUSSION ABOUT
ACTIVATE ACTIVATION OF THE
FRONT DOOR.
THERE WAS NO REQUEST AS A
REQUIREMENT AS PART OF THE
ARCHITECTURAL ELEVATION THAT
THE AWNING IS BEING ADDED TO
ADD A VISUAL CUE TO THAT BEING
A DOORWAY.
BUT THERE&apos;S NO REQUIREMENT THAT
IT BE FUNCTIONAL.
SO I THINK AND I&apos;M I DON&apos;T
RECALL THE DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
SOLID WASTE THAT IT WAS IN THE
RIGHT PLACE BUT IT WAS ACCESSED
FROM A DIFFERENT DIRECTION OR
SOMETHING.
BUT THOSE THOSE MY RECOLLECTION
IS THAT ALL OF THOSE STANDARDS
HAVE BEEN SUBMITTED TO A
REVISED PLAN.
I HAVE APPROVED THOSE THOSE ARE
NOT REQUIREMENTS PRIOR TO THAT
ISSUANCE OF OCCUPANCY.
OK, AND THAT WASN&apos;T IN THE
STAFF REPORT THAT I HAVE RIGHT
NOW.
I DID NOT STRICTLY TO THE I DID
JUST SO READ ANY OF THAT.
RIGHT.
OK, OK.
I THINK THOSE ARE MY QUESTIONS
COMMISSIONER.
SO THEY THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; UM THIS TAKES A LOT
OF MECHANICAL A LOT IS AND I
HAVEN&apos;T SEEN ANYTHING THE STATE
PLAN IN THE ELEVATIONS DON&apos;T
SHOW ANYTHING ON THE ROOF.
&gt;&gt; UH VIEWS FROM THE ONE SIDE
SO I GUESS I&apos;M WONDERING HAVE
SIZE THE MECHANICAL VENTILATION
EQUIPMENT YET AND DO YOU HAVE A
PLAN FOR ITS PLACEMENT AND DO
YOU HAVE ANY ELEVATIONS TO SHOW
US WHERE IT GOES AND IF WE CAN
SEE IT?
SO YEP IT&apos;S ALL BEEN LAID OUT.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S PART OF THE BUILDING
STRUCTURE.
I DON&apos;T HAVE AN ELEVATION WITH
ME THAT COULD SEE IT&apos;S BEEN OUR
UNDERSTANDING RIGHT NOW THAT
THAT TYPE OF THING WILL BE
BELOW THAT ROOFLINE.
IT&apos;S MY UNDERSTANDING OK?
&gt;&gt; I MEAN IT&apos;S IT&apos;S NOT MY
UNDERSTANDING.
DO YOU HAVE ANY ELEVATION
DRAWINGS AS PART OF THE PLAN SO
I MEAN I WOULD HONESTLY KIND
OF BE WILLING TO PUT ANOTHER
CONDITION ON THIS SIMILAR TO
WHAT WE SAW FOR THE
PROVISIONING CENTER THAT STAFF
NEEDS TO KIND OF REVIEW AND SEE
ELEVATIONS AND SCREENING IF IT
GOES ON THE ROOF AND I SEE IT&apos;S
RIGHT AT TWO X AND THEN THE
PARKING SO I CAN IMAGINE IT
LANDING ON THE GROUND TO
SERVICE I GUESS FROM STAFF IT
COULDN&apos;T LAND IN ANY FACILITY
TO THE GROUND BASED ON HOW THE
FLIGHT PLAN IS CORRECT
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT UP TO A
CERTAIN SIZE CAN BE PLACED ON
THE GROUND.
IT WOULD IT WOULD DEPEND ON THE
SIZE OF THAT EQUIPMENT.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD ANTICIPATE IT BEING
INSTALLED ON THE ROOF BUT NOT
WITHIN THE SET BACK.
&gt;&gt; NO, THERE&apos;S LIKE MINOR AREA
BUT LIKE ELEVATOR SHAFT.
WE&apos;VE SIZED ONE OF THESE JUST
FOR EVERYBODY&apos;S CONTEXT AND
THEY&apos;RE THE SIZE OF A LARGE
TRUCK LIKE THEY GET VERY, VERY
BIG FOR THE YEAH.
FOR TWO TWINS CONSUMPTION LOANS
TO MEET THE REQUIREMENTS LIKE A
CIGAR LOUNGE.
THESE THINGS ARE VERY BIG AND
THE CARBON FILTERS CAN BE UP TO
TWO FEET THICK TO FILTER THIS
THEY&apos;RE VERY SIGNIFICANT AND SO
THE STRUCTURALLY THIS THING
SITTING ON THE ROOF AND I MEAN
IT WAS EIGHT FEET TALL UM SO I
MEAN I WOULD REALLY WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT THERE&apos;S
SCREENING AROUND THIS THAT IT&apos;S
SET BACK AND IT&apos;S NOT VISIBLE
FROM THE ROAD BECAUSE I MEAN WE
WORKED THROUGH THE DISCUSSION
LAST TIME ALL ABOUT THE KIND
OF ACTIVATION AND THE
ELEVATIONS THE THING AND TO
REALLY JUST KIND OF PARK LARGE
MECHANICAL ON TOP OF IT WOULD
BE REALLY UNFORTUNATE WITH ALL
THE EFFORT THAT&apos;S BEEN TO
IMPROVE THE PROJECT.
SO STAFF, HOW LIKE IT WOULD
JUST BE CONDITIONAL ON STAFF
REVIEW OF ELEVATION&apos;S TO MEET
SCREENING.
&gt;&gt; SO I WANT TO BE CLEAR I
DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T HAVE THE
EXPERTIZE OF THE SIZE OF THOSE
UNITS FROM WHAT YOU&apos;RE SAYING
IF THEY ARE THAT SIZE I THINK
IT WOULD BE A SCREENING.
I THINK THAT THEY WOULD BE
VISIBLE.
I DON&apos;T FIT IF AND SO I WOULD
SUGGEST THAT IF YOU IF YOU
WANTED THAT CONDITION THAT WE
WOULD ADD YOU WOULD ADD A
CONDITION THAT REQUIRED
ARCHITECTURAL SCREENING OF ANY
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT INSTALLED
ON THE ROOF TO BE APPROVED BY
THE PLANNING MANAGER OR IF
YOU&apos;RE IF THAT&apos;S SOMETHING A
DETAIL THAT YOU WANT TO SEE
BEFORE YOU&apos;RE COMFORTABLE WITH
THIS, THEN I WOULD RECOMMEND
THAT THE PETITION WOULD HAVE TO
SUPPLY THAT WOULD COME BACK TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
I&apos;M HAPPY TO DO IT BUT I WANT
TO BE CLEAR FROM THE SOUND
OF IT I&apos;D PROBABLY WANT TO
START FROM THE FROM THE
POSITION THAT IT&apos;S LIKELY GOING
TO BE SCREENING TREATMENT AS
OPPOSED TO ANYTHING ELSE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, YEAH.
&gt;&gt; AND I THINK THAT LIKE
SCREENING IS KIND OF A
CONTINUOUS THAT MATCHES THE
ELEVATION INSTEAD
OF CONNECTIONS THE MECHANICAL
VARIANCES OF THE UNIT.
I IF I RECALL I THINK SOME
COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCT IS BEING
ADDED TO THE ARCHITECTURAL
YEAH.
REALLY APPROPRIATE PALETTE FOR
SOME SORT OF SCREENING OR
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT YOUR UNDERSTANDING
OF YOUR ENGINEERING AT THIS
POINT THE SCALE OF THIS?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I WOULD I WOULD SAY
THAT IT&apos;S NOT THE SCALE OF THE
SIZE OF THAT YOU&apos;RE DESCRIBING
.
YOU KNOW, I WOULD SAY IN THE
CANNABIS INDUSTRY BEING A VERY
NEW INDUSTRY, THERE&apos;S MANY WAYS
TO SKIN A CAT.
SO SO WE HAVEN&apos;T BEEN LOOKING
AT A MACHINE THAT THAT LARGE
AGAIN WE&apos;RE GOING WITH THE
NEGATIVE AIR PRESSURE THAT IT
UP AND MANY CARBON FILTERS
THROUGHOUT THE FACILITY
INCLUDING IN FACT YEAH, WE CAN
LAY OUT THE CARBON FILTERS
INSIDE ALSO.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH IT&apos;S PROCESSING YOU
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S AN OLD TECHNOLOGY
BECAUSE CIGAR LOUNGES AND
THINGS HAVE BEEN AROUND AND
IT&apos;S MEETING THE AIR QUALITY
OF THE MECHANICAL CODE THROUGH
THAT SIMILAR CODE BECAUSE IT&apos;S
A SMOKING LOUNGE RELATIVE TO
MARIJUANA OR ANY OTHER SORT
OF SMOKING CONSUMPTION THAT YOU
HAVE TO MEET THAT REQUIREMENT
FOR THIS OCCUPANCY LOAD AND
SQUARE FOOTAGE AND SO THEY GET
VERY, VERY BIG.
SO I&apos;LL OPEN IT UP FOR ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION BEFORE I MAKE
THE PROPOSAL TO SEE IF ANYBODY
IS INTERESTED IN THINGS.
BUT I DO PLAN ON MAKING THAT
PROPOSAL AS AN ADDENDUM TO THIS
COMMISSIONER.
SURE.
THANK YOU.
INTERESTING ENOUGH, YOU KNOW, I
WAS TAKING A LOOK AT DOSSIER
THERE LOOKING TO DO TWO FIVE
TON HVAC UNITS AND JUST KIND
OF LIKE THE BACK OF THE NAPKIN.
I&apos;M LIKE ONE NINE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET PER TON AND I&apos;M
LIKE OH IT DOESN&apos;T SEEM
SUFFICIENT I GUESS FOR THE NINE
THOUSAND TO GET THAT TWO FIVE
UNITS OUT FOR THE FIRST FLOOR
ONLY.
OK SO IT&apos;S 45 OK WHEN WE
STARTED THIS WITH CHRISTIAN GUY
HE TOLD US JUST TO GIVE THEM A
FLOOR LAYOUT BEFORE SO A LOT
OF THE MECHANICAL HASN&apos;T BEEN
LAID OUT YET BUT WE WILL HAVE
ANOTHER TWO FIVE TIME UNITS FOR
THE FOR THE SECOND FLOOR AND
ALSO OK GOD YOU GUYS LIKE
RESTAURANT REQUIREMENTS ARE
GOING TO BE A TON FOR THREE
HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE FEET OR
TWO HUNDRED FIFTY WE WANT TO
SEE AT LEAST THREE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET PER TON FOR FOUR
EVEN OFFICE USE SO I WAS LIKE
FIFTY FOUR AND I WAS LIKE I
DON&apos;T KNOW YOU MIGHT YOU MIGHT
WANT MORE BACK THAN THAT.
THAT&apos;S JUST ME JUST GIVING IT
KIND OF LIKE HERE&apos;S THE ONLY
THING FROM THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION APPROVAL THAT I HAVE
A QUESTION ON IS HOW ARE YOU
FAMILIAR A CONSUMPTION LOUNGE
STANDPOINT WHAT IS YOUR
ANTICIPATION ON HOW PEOPLE GET
THERE AND LEAVE THERE LIKE
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO BE I MEAN NOT
THAT SOMETHING YOU CAN CONTROL.
I&apos;M JUST TALKING PRACTICALLY I
JUST HAVE A QUESTION.
IT LOOKS LIKE AN AUTO CENTRIC
DESTINATION SO I&apos;M JUST GOING
TO GIVE OUT LIKE UBER VOUCHERS.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW.
IT&apos;S A BAR BASICALLY.
SO I&apos;M JUST ASKING PRACTICALLY
NOT IF IT&apos;S GOING TO YOU KNOW,
I JUST WANT TO BE MINDFUL
OF HOW PEOPLE ARE USING SPACE
GETTING TO IT AND LEAVING
ABSOLUTELY.
ONE OF THE MAIN DRAWS THAT WE
DO SEE ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR
LOCATION IS ITS PROXIMITY TO
HOTELS TOWNER&apos;S SO WE DO EXPECT
ACTUALLY THOSE THAT VISIT TO BE
BUILT, MANY OF THOSE PEOPLE
THAT ARE STAYING AT THE HOTELS
THAT ARE SURROUNDING AREA, WE
WILL HAVE A DISCOUNT SET UP
WITH THIS TABLE NEXT DOOR FOR
ANYBODY WHO CAN&apos;T DRIVE CAN
STAY THERE AND IT WILL BE A
DEEP DISCOUNT FOR THEM.
&gt;&gt; OK, UNDERSTOOD.
YEAH.
OVERALL I MEAN I WILL SAY THAT
SOME OF THE BUILD OUT
REQUIREMENTS THAT THESE FOLKS
HAVE OUT ARE REALLY HIGH END
RETAIL LEVEL.
SO I IMAGINE THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
BE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT GOOD
GOOD ESTHETICS ESSENTIALLY WHEN
IT COMES TO HPC ETC..
MY ONLY QUESTION WAS JUST
REGARDING THE OPERATIONAL
ASPECT BUT I THINK THAT&apos;S ABOUT
IT FOR ME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; ANYBODY ELSE AND AND IS
THERE ANY ANY ADJUSTING WE NEED
TO DO GO AHEAD.
OK SO WE&apos;LL SEE IF THE STICKS
BUT FROM MY FOUR FROM MY END
THANK YOU FOR GIVING ME SOME
LANGUAGE I PROPOSE ADDENDUM TO
THE PROPOSAL THAT SAYS THE
INSTALLATION OF ANY MECHANICAL
EQUIPMENT WILL BE ON THE
ROOFTOP AND SHALL BE SCREENED
IN A COMPOSITE WITH MATERIAL
MATCHING THE APPROVED
ARCHITECTURAL ELEVATION TO BE
APPROVED BY PLANNING MANAGER.
&gt;&gt; OK OH JUST SECOND.
OK SURE WE CAN JUST MOVED BY
QUESTION AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE HAVE A QUICK
VOTE ON THE AMENDMENT BUT NO
HANG ON MAY I INTERJECT?
I&apos;M SORRY TO INTERJECT.
I KNOW I&apos;M SORRY WE DIDN&apos;T HAVE
THE STUFF.
YES YES YES.
SORRY IS THERE ANY ANY
DISCUSSION ON WHAT THE RIGHT
ANSWER BUT RIGHT NOW WE HAVE A
SOLUTION AND A DISCUSSION ON
THIS OK CAN I GO AHEAD CAN YOU
JUST READ THAT YET ONE MORE
TIME.
&gt;&gt; WELL YEAH SO I PROPOSE AN
ADDITIONAL CONDITION WHICH
STATES THE INSTALLATION OF ANY
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT WILL BE ON
THE ROOFTOP AND SHALL BE
SCREENED IN A COMPOSITED
MATERIAL MATCHING THE APPROVED
ARCHITECTURAL ELEVATIONS TO BE
APPROVED BY THE PLANNING
MANAGER OR SHOULD IT READ
EXTERNAL?
IT&apos;S NOT TO SAY THAT YOU CAN&apos;T
PUT A MECHANICAL PERMIT IN THE
BUILDING OR CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, YEAH LIKE ANY
INSTALLED MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
ON THE ROOFTOP
AND THEN IS IT
APPROPRIATE FOR ME TO YIELD MY
TIME FOR I&apos;D LIKE TO HEAR FROM
THE PETITIONER ON OUR THOUGHT
REGARDING IT.
&gt;&gt; I NEED TO BRING THE CHANGE
THAT FRIENDLY WITH IT.
OK OK THAT YOU CAN ASK THE
QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; SURE.
WHAT DO YOU GUYS THINK ABOUT
THIS?
YEAH THAT WOULD BE THE ONE
BECAUSE THE BUILDING IS STILL
UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
RIGHT AND AS WE ALL KNOW
CONSTRUCTION CAN CHANGE IN
ANYTHING SO WE WOULD ASK AS
PART OF THE AMENDMENT UNLESS
THIS IS ABSOLUTELY NEEDS TO BE
ON THE GROUP IF IT CAN JUST BE
PROPERLY SCREENED, IF IT&apos;S ON
THE PREMISES OF THE PROPERTY IN
CASE WE RUN INTO SOMETHING OR
THEY SAY LOOK, IT&apos;S GOING TO
COST YOU EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS TO PUT THIS THING ON
THE ROOF BECAUSE OF X, Y AND Z.
RIGHT.
WHEREAS YOU&apos;D BE ABLE TO SAY
JUST PUT ON THE GRAPH SO WE
WOULD JUST ASK RATHER THAN JUST
TIE US INTO THE ROOF BECAUSE WE
ARE STILL UNDER CONSTRUCTION
THAT WE DO HAVE PROPER
SCREENING THAT MEETS THE
ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS OF THE
APPROVED SITE GOJO YOU
COMMISSIONER WIRCH.
&gt;&gt; SO IF WHAT THE PETITIONER IS
SAYING IS POSSIBLE, WOULDN&apos;T
THAT CHANGE THE FLIGHT PLAN
BECAUSE WE WOULD BE PUTTING
MAYBE CHANGING SOME AREA OF THE
SITE PLAN AND THEN WE WOULD
HAVE TO RESEE THAT SITE PLAN
WITH THE MECHANICAL ON THE
GROUND?
YEAH, I WOULD DENHA PERSON I
WOULDN&apos;T THIS PARTICULAR SITE
IT&apos;S SORT OF IT&apos;S A VERY
EXPOSED GUN TO FRONTAGES SO AND
THE WAY THAT THE THE PETITIONER
OR THE SITE WAS DEVELOPED I
SHOULD SAY I WAS LAID OUT I
DON&apos;T SEE A LOT OF FLEXIBILITY
FOR NECESSARILY APPROPRIATE
PLACES FOR GROUND MOUNTED
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT NEARBY
THAT BUILDING THE SPACES
BECAUSE THE BUILDING IS PRETTY
MUCH IT&apos;S PRETTY MUCH
SURROUNDED BY THE TOO RIGHT
OF WAYS.
YEP.
AND THE PARKING LOT AND SO MY I
GUESS MY INSTINCT WOULD BE THAT
BASED ON YOUR CANVASING AND
LAST TIME AROUND ABOUT THE
ACTIVATION AND THE STREET
PRESENCE OF THAT BUILDING, I
DON&apos;T SEE A LOT OF OPPORTUNITY
FOR EASY INSTALLATION
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT ON THE
GROUND.
SO WE SO FAR PREFER TO BE THERE
THE COME BACK WITH THE REVISED
PLAN IF IT&apos;S DETERMINED NOT
POSSIBLE.
BUT I THINK THAT THE THE
ROOFTOP IS A IT&apos;S A PRETTY I
DON&apos;T A CONVENIENT BECAUSE
THERE MIGHT BE COSTS, THERE
MIGHT BE BUILDING THERE MIGHT
BE STRUCTURAL FACTORS BUT I
THINK THAT&apos;S PROBABLY THE
PREFERENTIAL PLACE TO ADD A LOT
OF MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT IF
NECESSARY.
OK, SO THEN IF I COULD PLAY SO
RIGHT NOW THE THE BUILDING IS
CONSTRUCTED.
ARE YOU BECAUSE I&apos;M
MISUNDERSTANDING I GUESS I
DIDN&apos;T UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU
MEANT WHEN YOU SAID IT&apos;S STILL
I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU MAY BE
BUILDING OUT THE INTERIOR BUT
YOUR CONSTRUCTION IS COMPLETE
RIGHT THERE.
EXTERIOR CONSTRUCTION EXCEPT
FOR FASCIAL OR THE FACADE IS
COMPLETE.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT CORRECT?
YES.
THE THE OUTSIDE IS BASICALLY
COMPLETE.
AND JUST JUST TO ASK WE HAVE
RUFFED IN MOST MOST OF THE
MECHANICAL FOR EVERYTHING TO GO
ON THE ROOF.
WHAT I JUST DON&apos;T WANT TO DO IS
BE TIED INTO IT AND THEN FIND
OUT IN A YEAR OR TWO THAT MAYBE
WE NEED TO ADD A SMALLER UNIT
OR SOMETHING TO THE SIDE.
&gt;&gt; WELL, YOU WOULDN&apos;T AND AND
THIS IS WHERE I NEED STACK TO
CLARIFY.
YOU CAN&apos;T DO THAT RIGHT NOW
BECAUSE YOU&apos;D HAVE TO IT WOULD
CHANGE YOUR FLIGHT PLAN BECAUSE
YOU&apos;RE ADDING SOMETHING TO THE
SITE PLAN THAT IS ALREADY THERE
AND IT WOULD HIT A CERTAIN
THRESHOLD THAT WOULD REQUIRE A
SITE PLAN REVISION WOULD DEPEND
ON DEPEND ON THE SIZE.
RECENTLY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CITY COUNCIL DID
ADOPT SOME AMENDMENTS THAT
PROVIDES THE FLEXIBILITY UP TO
THREE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET.
RIGHT.
SO IF ANYTHING EXCEEDS THREE
HUNDRED FEET YOU&apos;VE GOT TO
SUBMIT A NEW SITE PLAN TO THE
PLANNING MANAGER AND THEN IT
HAS TO COME HERE TO GET
APPROVED.
SO I&apos;M TRYING TO MAKE SURE I&apos;M
UNDERSTANDING WHAT YOU&apos;RE
SAYING SO THAT WE CAN GET OUR
MOTION TO FIT WHAT WE WANT AND
DOESN&apos;T INCONVENIENCE YOU.
ARE WE ON THE SAME PAGE OR DO
YOU FEEL LIKE THERE&apos;S SOMETHING
WE&apos;RE MISSING WE PICKED UP FROM
COMMISSIONER AT WHAT DO YOU
THINK ABOUT THIS?
&gt;&gt; OH, I&apos;M I&apos;M FRIENDLY TO WHAT
I&apos;M HEARING.
I DO HAVE A DIFFERENT QUESTION
ACTUALLY ENTIRELY SO.
OK, BUT BEFORE YOU DO THAT CAN
I JUST FROM THE PETITIONER ARE
ARE WE ON THE SAME PAGE LIKE
IT&apos;S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT THE
WAY THE BUILDING IS SITUATED
AND WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY ASKED
FOR WILL PROHIBIT PUTTING THIS
MECHANICAL ON THE GROUND IN ANY
WAY THAT WOULD SORT OF WORK SO
SO WHAT I&apos;M ASKING FOR IS THE
FLEXIBILITY IN THE FUTURE IN
CASE AND IT COULD BE ANYTHING
THE FIRST THING THAT COMES TO
MIND IS A MINI SPLIT.
RIGHT.
WHICH IS NOT GOING TO HAVE AN
OUTSIDE PRESENCE OF GREATER
THAN THREE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET.
RIGHT.
SO IT&apos;S THINGS LIKE THAT,
RIGHT?
IT&apos;S A NEW BUILDING.
WE DON&apos;T KNOW EXACTLY HOW
THINGS ARE GOING TO GO.
YOU KNOW, MAYBE WE FIND THAT AN
AREA OF THE BUILDING IS NOT
BEING COOLED AS WE HAD HOPED
RIGHT.
SO THEN WE MAY BE SUPPLEMENTING
AIR CONDITIONING OR ANY OF THE
H BACK THERE AND WHAT WE WE
WOULDN&apos;T BE WE WE CERTAINLY
DON&apos;T LOOK TO BE SUPPLEMENTING
IN GIGANTIC OR VERY LARGE AREAS
RIGHT.
WE DID THAT WOULD OBVIOUSLY
HAVE TO GO UP ON THE ROOF.
BUT IF WE DID HAVE SOMETHING
SMALLER THAN WE JUST LIKE TO BE
ABLE TO DO THAT WITH
APPROPRIATE SCREENING ON THE
GROUND WITHOUT HAVING TO COME
BACK, OBVIOUSLY IF WE WERE TO
DO ANYTHING LARGER AND WE DID
WANT TO PUT IT ON THE GROUND,
WE ARE AWARE THAT WE&apos;D HAVE TO
COME BACK HERE BEFORE WE DID
THAT.
OK, AND THEN MR. WINTER, IS
THIS ALL GOOD FROM YOUR POINT
OF VIEW?
DO WE NEED TO AMEND WHAT WE
HAVE ALREADY PROPOSED?
&gt;&gt; SO WHAT ARE YOU PROPOSING IS
TO REQUIRE SCREENING FOR
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT BEING
PROPOSED FOR THE ROOF FOR ANY
OTHER MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
WOULD BE SUBJECT TO THE BOTH
THE PROVISIONS THAT ARE ALLOWED
CURRENTLY AND LIMITATIONS ARE
ALLOWED CURRENTLY.
SO IN THE EVENT THAT THEY WERE
UNDER THE THRESHOLD WHERE IT
DIDN&apos;T REQUIRE SLEIPNER REVIEW
FOR MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT THEY
COULD PLACE ON THE SITE SUBJECT
TO ANY RESTRICTIONS THAT IT
CAN&apos;T BE THE FRONT SET BACK AND
THE LIKE IF IT WERE OVER A
CERTAIN SIZE THAT WOULD
AUTOMATICALLY THEN NECESSITATE
A REVISED PLAN.
OK, SO WE ARE IN LINE WITH OUR
CODE BUT TO BE CLEAR IT IS NOT
IT&apos;S NOT IT&apos;S NOT PROVIDING ANY
FLEXIBILITY BEYOND WHAT THE
ORDINANCE ALREADY PROVIDES OR
RISK AND PETITIONER UNDERSTANDS
THAT THERE IS NO ADDITIONAL
FLEXIBILITY OUTSIDE OF WHAT THE
CODE ALREADY PROVIDES.
YES, THANK YOU OK THAT I&apos;M GOOD
WITH THE REVISION TO YOUR
MOTION AND I THINK THAT WAS IT
FOR ME.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD JUST LIKE TO POINT
OUT ONE THING AND PIGGYBACK TO
THAT THAT I&apos;M JUST MY
OBSERVATION HAS BEEN THAT
USUALLY WHEN WE&apos;RE DOING SO
PLANS WERE NOT THE ARCHITECTURE
ISN&apos;T AT THE STAGE WHERE WE&apos;RE
REALLY LOOKING AT DETAILED
MECHANICAL SYSTEMS AT ALL AND
SO IT&apos;S REALLY NOT PART OF THE
SITE PLAN IN THAT WAY BECAUSE
THAT USUALLY HAPPENS LATER.
SO WE&apos;RE JUST NOT USUALLY
DEALING WITH THAT.
AND WHEN WE LOOK AT RENDERINGS
AND THINGS LIKE IT&apos;D BE NICE IF
WE HAD ALL THAT BUT WE REALLY
DON&apos;T IN TERMS OF THE STAGE AT
WHICH WE NORMALLY SEE THINGS SO
THIS IS SORT OF A FUNNY
OPPORTUNITY FOR US THAT WE
DON&apos;T USUALLY GET TO BE ABLE TO
SEE THIS STUFF AT THIS STAGE
BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE COMING BACK FOR
THIS THIS OTHER THIS OTHER THIS
OTHER PROJECT.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE IF THEY HAVE
THE ROOM TO FIT IT ON THE
GROUND IT COMPLIES WITH
EVERYTHING THEN THEY HAVE TO
SCREEN IT AND IF AND THAT THAT
MAY NOT BE LIKELY IN TERMS
OF THE AMOUNT OF SPACE IT TAKES
UP.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL SEE.
AND IF THEY IF THEY PUT IT ON
THE ROOF WE HAVE TO SCREEN IT,
WHICH IS BASICALLY WHAT WE&apos;RE
GIVING THEM THE OPPORTUNITY TO
DO COMMERCIALLY ACTUALLY AS FAR
AS THIS PARTICULAR AMENDMENT
GOES THAT THE CONCLUDES MY
COMMENTS.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, I&apos;M CURIOUS
AGAIN BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T TALK
ABOUT MECHANICALS VERY OFTEN
BECAUSE WE HEAR AGAIN AND AGAIN
WE HAVEN&apos;T FIGURED OUT WHAT THE
IS THERE A LIMITATION WHAT WHAT
ARE THE LIMITATIONS ON HEIGHT
ASSOCIATED WITH MECHANICALS AND
SO YES, SCREENING CAN HELP IT.
LONDON BUT IF IT REALLY IS THE
SIZE OF A TRUCK IT MAY BE
REALLY LARGE THREE FOOT SIX TEN
IS ONE THAT I HAD PREVIOUSLY
ENGINEERED.
SO IF SOME STAFF COULD REMIND
US HOW THAT WORKS WITH THE
HEIGHT LIMIT AND I DON&apos;T KNOW
WHAT WELL IT CAN DO YOU KNOW,
PROBABLY DON&apos;T SEEM TO BE AND
WHAT IS THE LIMIT OF OUR CTV SO
SO THE SHORT ANSWER IS
MECHANICAL AND COUNTS TOWARDS
YOUR HEIGHT THIS TWO STOREY
BUILDING IS LIKELY WELL BELOW
THE THE SO THERE&apos;S NO HEIGHT
LIMIT CONCERN.
OK, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
RESURVEY.
THAT&apos;S LIKE THAT&apos;S WHAT I JUST
WANT TO ADD LIKE IF YOU HAVE
ROOM NOW STRUCTURALLY
ENGINEERING TO PLAN FOR THIS
LIKE THE I I THINK WE DON&apos;T
UNDERSTAND UNDERSTANDING WE&apos;RE
NOT TRYING TO KIND OF BLOCK YOU
FROM MODIFICATIONS TO SUPPORT
SYSTEMS AND THINGS FOR
COMFORT IN OFFICES AND THINGS.
BUT THIS IN TERMS OF AIR
QUALITY AND MECHANICAL CODE FOR
SMOKING AREAS IS PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT.
SO IF IT&apos;S NOT PLANNED NOW AND
I THINK IT JUST LIKE IT&apos;S A
UNIQUE KIND OF CIRCUMSTANCE BUT
ALSO LIKE WE USUALLY LOOK AT
ELEVATION AS PART OF A
SEQUENCED MIDDLE AND WE&apos;RE NOT
BECAUSE THIS IS JUST A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION IN A WAY.
SO WE ACTUALLY KIND OF LOOK AT
LESS TYPICALLY BUT THAT&apos;S WHY
WE ALSO HAVE A COMMISSION FULL
OF EXPERTS IN DIFFERENT AREAS.
&gt;&gt; SO HOPEFULLY IT&apos;S ACTUALLY
KIND OF TO YOUR BENEFIT MAYBE
THAT YOUR YOU HAVE MORE
AWARENESS AND THAT THE KIND
OF QUALITY OF THE BUILDING AND
ATTRACTION FROM THE STREET
FRONT IS MAINTAINED FOR THE
COMMUNITY AND YOUR BUSINESS.
ANYBODY ELSE OK, SO WE READY
TO
VOTE ON THE MOTION?
&gt;&gt; OK, ALL THE AMENDMENTS, ALL
RIGHTS THE AMENDMENT, ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY I I THE
MOTION CARRIES ALREADY SO NOW
ARE WE READY FOR ONE MORE?
I HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT THE
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION.
I SAW THE NOTICE THAT WENT OUT.
WAS THERE ANY ENGAGEMENT WITH
THAT BECAUSE I WE WILL WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT IS THE
FUNDAMENTAL SPECIAL USE.
RIGHT.
SO I&apos;M TRYING TO DETERMINE IF
SWEETS GAVE YOU A FEEDBACK
HOLIDAY INN AND TACO BELL
ACROSS THE STREET THEY&apos;RE
PROBABLY LIKE YEAH BUT BUT I&apos;M
JUST WONDERING LIKE IF YOU GOT
ANY CITIZEN PARTICIPATION
BECAUSE I&apos;M TRYING TO EVALUATE
THIS FROM LIKE THE U.S.
STANDPOINT OF IS THIS THE
APPROPRIATE USE FOR THIS
PARTICULAR BUILDING?
&gt;&gt; STANBRIDGE HOLIDAY INN ARE
ON BOARD.
WE GOT NOTHING ELSE EVEN A
RESUME CALL WITH OUR RESIDENT
PARTICIPATION.
NOBODY SHOWED UP TO THAT CALL.
OK, THAT&apos;S WHY WE DON&apos;T HAVE
THE REPORT.
OK, I JUST NEEDED A LIST ASK
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT IT
FITS WITH THE CONTINUITY AND
COMPLEMENTARY USES THAT WE WANT
TO.
SO THANK YOU ALREADY.
ARE WE READY FOR A ROLL CALL
VOTE
?
THAT&apos;S ME.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE MOTION AS AMENDED TO
REQUIRE SCREENING FOR ANY
MECHANICAL COMMENT PLACED ON
THE WITH THEY WOULD COMPOSED
OF MATERIAL SIMILAR TO THE
APPROVED ARCHITECTURAL
ELEVATIONS.
COMMISSIONER GET RID.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
SO YES, COMMISSIONER DISH YES
COMMISSIONER.
I APOLOGIZE.
I HAVE ONE QUESTION.
THIS IS ON THE MOTION.
&gt;&gt; YES, THIS IS ON THE MOTION.
DID WE DID WE REVISE ASHLEY
STREET REFERENCE?
YES.
OK, GREAT THEN YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
&gt;&gt; YES.
COMMISSIONER WAGE.
YES.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER MILLS.
MOTION CARRIES ALL RIGHT.
YES.
CONGRATULATIONS.
MOTION CARRIES ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE ON TO PUBLIC COMMENT NO
CONGRATULATIONS.
ITEM NUMBER TEN THIS IS AN
WE ARE ON TO PUBLIC COMMENT NO
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
ITEM NUMBER TEN THIS IS AN
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES.
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
ANY ISSUE WILL FIRST CALL IN
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES.
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
ANY ISSUE WILL FIRST CALL IN
THE COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
PRESS NINE LISTENING BY PHONE
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
PRESS NINE LISTENING BY PHONE
VIEWING FOR THE WEB LINK FOR
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
VIEWING FOR THE WEB LINK FOR
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
FOUR SEVEN AND OUR MEETING AND
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR SEVEN AND OUR MEETING AND
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX TEN MUTE
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
STAR SIX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX TEN MUTE
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
STAR SIX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
HAND USING THE LAST FOUR DIGITS
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
OF YOUR PHONE YOU&apos;LL HEAR AN
HAND USING THE LAST FOUR DIGITS
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
OF YOUR PHONE YOU&apos;LL HEAR AN
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
FOR EITHER METHOD
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
OF PARTICIPATION.
FOR EITHER METHOD
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
OF PARTICIPATION.
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF THE
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
COMMENTS.
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF THE
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
COMMENTS.
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK OK, MOVE ON
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
TO ANYBODY REMOTELY.
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK OK, MOVE ON
MR. LEONARD, WE HAVE ONE
TO ANYBODY REMOTELY.
SPEAKER CALLER WITH THE PHONE
MR. LEONARD, WE HAVE ONE
NUMBER AND WITH THREE FIVE ONE
SPEAKER CALLER WITH THE PHONE
YOU CAN PRESS STAR SIX TWO ON
NUMBER AND WITH THREE FIVE ONE
ME YOUR PHONE AND ADDRESS THE
YOU CAN PRESS STAR SIX TWO ON
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THREE
ME YOUR PHONE AND ADDRESS THE
MINUTES.
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THREE
I FIND OUT THAT ONLY A RESIDENT
MINUTES.
OF THIS SECOND WORD AND I&apos;M
I FIND OUT THAT ONLY A RESIDENT
CALLING TO SPEAK ABOUT THE
OF THIS SECOND WORD AND I&apos;M
ZONING RESTRICTIONS ON STUDENT
CALLING TO SPEAK ABOUT THE
COOPERATIVE HOUSING THE ENTIRE
ZONING RESTRICTIONS ON STUDENT
COOPERATIVE COUNCIL FOR SHORT
COOPERATIVE HOUSING THE ENTIRE
HAS OWNED AND DEMOCRATICALLY
COOPERATIVE COUNCIL FOR SHORT
OPERATED STUDENT COOPERATIVE
HAS OWNED AND DEMOCRATICALLY
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR NINETEEN
OPERATED STUDENT COOPERATIVE
THIRTY TWO AND IT CURRENTLY
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR NINETEEN
SERVES A MAXIMUM CAPACITY
THIRTY TWO AND IT CURRENTLY
OF FIVE HUNDRED AND FORTY TWO
SERVES A MAXIMUM CAPACITY
RATHER THAN NUMBER NINE OTHER
OF FIVE HUNDRED AND FORTY TWO
THAN ELEVEN OUT OF THE SIXTEEN
RATHER THAN NUMBER NINE OTHER
PROPERTIES OWNED BY THE ITC ARE
THAN ELEVEN OUT OF THE SIXTEEN
NON-COMPLIANT WITH THE UTILITY
PROPERTIES OWNED BY THE ITC ARE
NONCOMPLIANCE PREVENT THE ITC
NON-COMPLIANT WITH THE UTILITY
FROM STRUCTURALLY ALTERING AND
NONCOMPLIANCE PREVENT THE ITC
RENOVATING OLD PROPERTIES AND
FROM STRUCTURALLY ALTERING AND
PROVIDING NEW PROPERTY IN TWO
RENOVATING OLD PROPERTIES AND
THOUSAND FOR ONE OF OUR HOUSES
PROVIDING NEW PROPERTY IN TWO
EVEN HIS HOUSE BURNT DOWN AND
THOUSAND FOR ONE OF OUR HOUSES
BECAUSE THE NONCOMPLIANCE WITH
EVEN HIS HOUSE BURNT DOWN AND
THE ZONING CODE WE COULD NOT
BECAUSE THE NONCOMPLIANCE WITH
REBUILD AND HAD TO SELL THE
THE ZONING CODE WE COULD NOT
PROPERTY THE ITC HAS LOST
REBUILD AND HAD TO SELL THE
CAPACITY OVER THE PAST DECADE
PROPERTY THE ITC HAS LOST
DUE TO DISCRIMINATORY ZONING
CAPACITY OVER THE PAST DECADE
LAWS THAT PREVENT THE CITY FROM
DUE TO DISCRIMINATORY ZONING
INTERNALLY AND EXTERNALLY
LAWS THAT PREVENT THE CITY FROM
EXPANDING TO BE COMPLIANT WITH
INTERNALLY AND EXTERNALLY
THE ZONING CODE STUDENT
EXPANDING TO BE COMPLIANT WITH
COOPERATIVES MUST MEET THE
THE ZONING CODE STUDENT
FOLLOWING MINIMUM CONDITIONS
COOPERATIVES MUST MEET THE
AND EIGHT THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED
FOLLOWING MINIMUM CONDITIONS
SQUARE FOOT LOT AREA A 5000
AND EIGHT THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FOOT AREA AND THREE
SQUARE FOOT LOT AREA A 5000
HUNDRED AND FIFTY SQUARE FEET
SQUARE FOOT AREA AND THREE
OF AREA PER OCCUPANT.
HUNDRED AND FIFTY SQUARE FEET
THESE REQUIREMENTS DESCRIBE
OF AREA PER OCCUPANT.
BRIEFLY POSSIBLE AND I CANNOT
THESE REQUIREMENTS DESCRIBE
STRESS ENOUGH THAT THE ITC IS
BRIEFLY POSSIBLE AND I CANNOT
NOT REQUIRED.
STRESS ENOUGH THAT THE ITC IS
WE HOLD DIVERSE HOUSING TYPES,
NOT REQUIRED.
MEET THE LIFESTYLE AND NEEDS
WE HOLD DIVERSE HOUSING TYPES,
OF OUR MEMBERS AND EVEN SO THE
MEET THE LIFESTYLE AND NEEDS
NOT LEGALLY OPERATE ANY NEW
OF OUR MEMBERS AND EVEN SO THE
HOUSES THAT FAIL TO MEET THESE
NOT LEGALLY OPERATE ANY NEW
MINIMUM.
HOUSES THAT FAIL TO MEET THESE
FURTHERMORE, THE ITC IS
MINIMUM.
GEOGRAPHICALLY RESTRICTED AND
FURTHERMORE, THE ITC IS
WHERE IT CAN PROVIDE AFFORDABLE
GEOGRAPHICALLY RESTRICTED AND
STUDENT HOUSING UNIT ARE ONLY
WHERE IT CAN PROVIDE AFFORDABLE
ALLOWED IN HOUR TO BE AN HOUR
STUDENT HOUSING UNIT ARE ONLY
FOR NOT THAT MANY PROPERTIES IN
ALLOWED IN HOUR TO BE AN HOUR
OUR PART WOULD BE COMPLIANT
FOR NOT THAT MANY PROPERTIES IN
WITH OUR CURRENT RESTRICTIONS
OUR PART WOULD BE COMPLIANT
AND JUST TO BE PERMITTED IN
WITH OUR CURRENT RESTRICTIONS
EITHER THESE I THINK WE HAVE TO
AND JUST TO BE PERMITTED IN
APPLY FOR A SPECIAL SECTION
EITHER THESE I THINK WE HAVE TO
WHERE EVERYONE IN THE
APPLY FOR A SPECIAL SECTION
NEIGHBORHOOD IS NOTIFIED AND
WHERE EVERYONE IN THE
PROVIDED AN OPPORTUNITY TO
NEIGHBORHOOD IS NOTIFIED AND
EXPLAIN WHY THEY DON&apos;T WANT TO
PROVIDED AN OPPORTUNITY TO
BE NEIGHBORS WITH STUDENTS IN
EXPLAIN WHY THEY DON&apos;T WANT TO
NEED OF AFFORDABLE.
BE NEIGHBORS WITH STUDENTS IN
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE
NEED OF AFFORDABLE.
PLANNING COMMISSION TAKE UP
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE
THIS ISSUE IN COOPERATION WITH
PLANNING COMMISSION TAKE UP
THE ITC TO PERMIT THE EXPANSION
THIS ISSUE IN COOPERATION WITH
OF PERMANENTLY AFFORDABLE
THE ITC TO PERMIT THE EXPANSION
HOUSING OPTION IN ANN ARBOR.
OF PERMANENTLY AFFORDABLE
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
HOUSING OPTION IN ANN ARBOR.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
NO OTHER SPEAKERS, NO OTHER
THANK YOU.
SPEAKERS.
NO OTHER SPEAKERS, NO OTHER
OK, WE ARE ON TO ITEM TEN WHICH
SPEAKERS.
IS COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
OK, WE ARE ON TO ITEM TEN WHICH
COMMISSIONER WHITE HOW WOULD WE
IS COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
RESPOND TO THE CALLER MR.
COMMISSIONER WHITE HOW WOULD WE
LEONARD?
RESPOND TO THE CALLER MR.
THE CALLER HAD PREVIOUSLY
LEONARD?
EMAILED ME EMAILED ME AND MY
THE CALLER HAD PREVIOUSLY
INTENTION WAS TO TALK WITH THE
EMAILED ME EMAILED ME AND MY
COMMISSION LIKELY THE EXECUTIVE
INTENTION WAS TO TALK WITH THE
COMMITTEE.
COMMISSION LIKELY THE EXECUTIVE
THE QUESTION WAS POSED YOU WE
COMMITTEE.
WE PROVIDE AUDIENCES CITIZENS
THE QUESTION WAS POSED YOU WE
OF CAN APPLY FOR TAX CHANGES.
WE PROVIDE AUDIENCES CITIZENS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION CAN
OF CAN APPLY FOR TAX CHANGES.
INITIATE TAX AMENDMENTS AND THE
THE PLANNING COMMISSION CAN
CITY COUNCIL CAN REQUEST THAT
INITIATE TAX AMENDMENTS AND THE
THE PLANNING COMMISSION LOOK AT
CITY COUNCIL CAN REQUEST THAT
TAX AMENDMENTS.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION LOOK AT
IT WOULD LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE
TAX AMENDMENTS.
LIKE MULTIPLE DEMANDS IT WOULD
IT WOULD LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE
BE CONSIDERING IF IT WAS
LIKE MULTIPLE DEMANDS IT WOULD
OF INTEREST TO THE PLANNING
BE CONSIDERING IF IT WAS
COMMISSION AND WHERE IT IS A
OF INTEREST TO THE PLANNING
PRIORITY COMPARED TO YOUR OTHER
COMMISSION AND WHERE IT IS A
WORK PROGRAM ITEMS AND MAKING
PRIORITY COMPARED TO YOUR OTHER
ADJUSTMENTS IF DESIRED OR
WORK PROGRAM ITEMS AND MAKING
ADDING IT FOR FUTURE
ADJUSTMENTS IF DESIRED OR
CONSIDERATION.
ADDING IT FOR FUTURE
SO WE WOULD OF COURSE BE THE
CONSIDERATION.
FIRST PLACE THAT IT WOULD LAND
SO WE WOULD OF COURSE BE THE
OR SEA WOULD BE THE FIRST PLACE
FIRST PLACE THAT IT WOULD LAND
TO WORK ON PROPOSED LANGUAGE.
OR SEA WOULD BE THE FIRST PLACE
I THINK DISCUSSING ITS
TO WORK ON PROPOSED LANGUAGE.
PRIORITIZATION IN THE CONTEXT
I THINK DISCUSSING ITS
OF OTHER ORDINANCE CHANGES
PRIORITIZATION IN THE CONTEXT
WOULD PROBABLY BE BEST
OF OTHER ORDINANCE CHANGES
CONSIDERED BY THE ENTIRETY
WOULD PROBABLY BE BEST
OF THE COMMISSION AND THE
CONSIDERED BY THE ENTIRETY
PROCESS.
OF THE COMMISSION AND THE
IS IT A COLLECTIVE PROCESS TO
PROCESS.
PUT IT ON OUR WORK PLAN OR CAN
IS IT A COLLECTIVE PROCESS TO
I SAY CAN YOU PUT THAT ON THE
PUT IT ON OUR WORK PLAN OR CAN
BIG DOCUMENT NOT THE LIKE THING
I SAY CAN YOU PUT THAT ON THE
THAT WE&apos;VE DECIDED FOR TWENTY
BIG DOCUMENT NOT THE LIKE THING
TWENTY TWO TWENTY TWENTY THREE
THAT WE&apos;VE DECIDED FOR TWENTY
TO BE THE WORK PLAN BUT LIKE
TWENTY TWO TWENTY TWENTY THREE
THE SO THE REST OF THE PAGE SO
TO BE THE WORK PLAN BUT LIKE
THE WORK PROGRAM INCLUDING ALL
THE SO THE REST OF THE PAGE SO
THOSE ITEMS IS APPROVED BY THE
THE WORK PROGRAM INCLUDING ALL
COMMISSION AS A WHOLE.
THOSE ITEMS IS APPROVED BY THE
OKAY WHAT I DO EVERY TIME THE
COMMISSION AS A WHOLE.
COMMISSION DESIRES TO UPDATE
OKAY WHAT I DO EVERY TIME THE
THAT IS WE MINE ALL THE
COMMISSION DESIRES TO UPDATE
COMMISSION PROPOSAL BUSINESS
THAT IS WE MINE ALL THE
AND SO FROM THIS DISCUSSION
COMMISSION PROPOSAL BUSINESS
THAT&apos;S I GET ADDED TO THIS LIST
AND SO FROM THIS DISCUSSION
GREAT.
THAT&apos;S I GET ADDED TO THIS LIST
AND THE NEXT TIME AND THERE&apos;S
GREAT.
NO THERE&apos;S NO RESTRICTION THE
AND THE NEXT TIME AND THERE&apos;S
PLANNING COMMISSION CAN AMEND
NO THERE&apos;S NO RESTRICTION THE
OUR PROGRAM AT ANY TIME SHOULD
PLANNING COMMISSION CAN AMEND
BE DONE ON AN ANNUAL BASIS THAT
OUR PROGRAM AT ANY TIME SHOULD
DOESN&apos;T SAY IT CAN&apos;T BE DONE
BE DONE ON AN ANNUAL BASIS THAT
MORE FREQUENTLY.
DOESN&apos;T SAY IT CAN&apos;T BE DONE
&gt;&gt; OK, SO IT&apos;LL GO ON THE LIST
MORE FREQUENTLY.
FOR CONSIDERATION AND THEN
&gt;&gt; OK, SO IT&apos;LL GO ON THE LIST
COMMISSIONER WOULD NEED TO
FOR CONSIDERATION AND THEN
PROPOSE THAT IT MOVE UP ON THE
COMMISSIONER WOULD NEED TO
WORK PLAN IN ORDER FOR US TO
PROPOSE THAT IT MOVE UP ON THE
HAVE THE WHOLE COMMISSION
WORK PLAN IN ORDER FOR US TO
CONSIDER IT.
HAVE THE WHOLE COMMISSION
IT WOULD JUST BE WHAT WE WOULD
CONSIDER IT.
DO IS I WOULD PLACE THE WORK
IT WOULD JUST BE WHAT WE WOULD
PROGRAM ON AN AGENDA FOR
DO IS I WOULD PLACE THE WORK
CONSIDERATION AND IT WOULD BE
PROGRAM ON AN AGENDA FOR
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR ANY CHANGES
CONSIDERATION AND IT WOULD BE
TO BE CONSIDERED FOR THE WORK
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR ANY CHANGES
PROGRAM.
TO BE CONSIDERED FOR THE WORK
SO I WOULD LIKE TO ASK THAT YOU
PROGRAM.
CONSIDER THAT ESPECIALLY GIVEN
SO I WOULD LIKE TO ASK THAT YOU
THE FACT THAT THEY HAD A
CONSIDER THAT ESPECIALLY GIVEN
STRUCTURE BURNED DOWN AND THEN
THE FACT THAT THEY HAD A
HAD TO SELL IT WHICH TOOK AWAY
STRUCTURE BURNED DOWN AND THEN
THEIR ABILITY TO DO WHAT THEY
HAD TO SELL IT WHICH TOOK AWAY
NEED JUST SO THAT WE CAN TAKE A
THEIR ABILITY TO DO WHAT THEY
LOOK AT THAT AND THEN JUST PUT
NEED JUST SO THAT WE CAN TAKE A
IT WITH OUR C AT THE SAME TIME
LOOK AT THAT AND THEN JUST PUT
AND THEN WE CAN GET SOME REAL
IT WITH OUR C AT THE SAME TIME
THINGS GOING JUST AS A REMINDER
AND THEN WE CAN GET SOME REAL
FOR THE UDC DOES PROVIDE THE
THINGS GOING JUST AS A REMINDER
NONPERFORMING STRUCTURES CAN BE
FOR THE UDC DOES PROVIDE THE
INVESTED IN AND THEY CAN BE
NONPERFORMING STRUCTURES CAN BE
MODIFIED AND EXPANDED.
INVESTED IN AND THEY CAN BE
IT IS REQUIRED IT DOES REQUIRE
MODIFIED AND EXPANDED.
CONSIDERATION BY THE ZONING
IT IS REQUIRED IT DOES REQUIRE
BOARD OF APPEALS THAT HAPPENS
CONSIDERATION BY THE ZONING
ALL THE TIME.
BOARD OF APPEALS THAT HAPPENS
SO THERE IS A MECHANISM WE&apos;RE
ALL THE TIME.
NOT CONFIRMING STRUCTURES CAN
SO THERE IS A MECHANISM WE&apos;RE
BE INVESTED INVESTED ON
NOT CONFIRMING STRUCTURES CAN
CERTAINLY IN THE CASE OF REALLY
BE INVESTED INVESTED ON
SEVERE CATASTROPHIC LOSS LIKE
CERTAINLY IN THE CASE OF REALLY
THAT THAT DOESN&apos;T APPLY.
SEVERE CATASTROPHIC LOSS LIKE
THAT IS BY NATURE NONCONFORMITY
THAT THAT DOESN&apos;T APPLY.
IS WHEN A STRUCTURE IS LOST
THAT IS BY NATURE NONCONFORMITY
BEYOND A CERTAIN THRESHOLD.
IS WHEN A STRUCTURE IS LOST
THE INTENTION BY LAW IS THAT IT
BEYOND A CERTAIN THRESHOLD.
THEN HAS TO COME IN COMPLIANCE
THE INTENTION BY LAW IS THAT IT
WITH OUR CURRENT REGULATORY
THEN HAS TO COME IN COMPLIANCE
FRAMEWORK SO YOU COMMISSIONER.
WITH OUR CURRENT REGULATORY
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I&apos;M GLAD YOU STARTED
FRAMEWORK SO YOU COMMISSIONER.
ON THAT ROAD OF LETTING US KNOW
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I&apos;M GLAD YOU STARTED
WHAT REMEDIES EXIST.
ON THAT ROAD OF LETTING US KNOW
SO I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR A
WHAT REMEDIES EXIST.
LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT JUST YOU
SO I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR A
KNOW, IF IT WOULDN&apos;T TAKE TOO
LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT JUST YOU
MUCH TIME I WOULD APPRECIATE A
KNOW, IF IT WOULDN&apos;T TAKE TOO
STAFF OVERVIEW OF THE PROBLEM
MUCH TIME I WOULD APPRECIATE A
AS PRESENTED AN ESTIMATE OF THE
STAFF OVERVIEW OF THE PROBLEM
HOURS THAT AN ESTIMATE OF THE
AS PRESENTED AN ESTIMATE OF THE
POSSIBLE EFFECTIVENESS OF UTC
HOURS THAT AN ESTIMATE OF THE
TEXT CHANGES FOR FOR ADVANCING
POSSIBLE EFFECTIVENESS OF UTC
THIS FORM OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
TEXT CHANGES FOR FOR ADVANCING
AND A ROUGH ESTIMATE OF THE
THIS FORM OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
HOURS SO THAT WE CAN THINK
AND A ROUGH ESTIMATE OF THE
ABOUT PRIORITIES BECAUSE WE DO
HOURS SO THAT WE CAN THINK
HAVE A LOT OF THINGS AND UM I
ABOUT PRIORITIES BECAUSE WE DO
WOULD ABSOLUTELY LOVE BY EVERY
HAVE A LOT OF THINGS AND UM I
MEASURE TO SEE MORE AFFORDABLE
WOULD ABSOLUTELY LOVE BY EVERY
HOUSING BUT WE DO HAVE SOME
MEASURE TO SEE MORE AFFORDABLE
THINGS LINED UP THAT THAT
HOUSING BUT WE DO HAVE SOME
SHOULD FOR THAT.
THINGS LINED UP THAT THAT
SO I WOULD WANT TO KNOW HOW
SHOULD FOR THAT.
MUCH BANG WE&apos;RE GOING TO GET
SO I WOULD WANT TO KNOW HOW
FOR OUR BUCK IS THE COMMISSION
MUCH BANG WE&apos;RE GOING TO GET
INTERESTED IN HEARING FROM THE
FOR OUR BUCK IS THE COMMISSION
COOPERATIVE OR DIRECTLY OR IS
INTERESTED IN HEARING FROM THE
THAT SOMETHING OUR STAFF
COOPERATIVE OR DIRECTLY OR IS
PUTTING TOGETHER THAT RESEARCH?
THAT SOMETHING OUR STAFF
I WAS THINKING THAT I WOULD
PUTTING TOGETHER THAT RESEARCH?
RATHER HEAR YOUR EXPERT OPINION
BUT IF YOU FEEL THAT WE WOULD
BENEFIT FROM I&apos;LL START WITH
WHAT SORT OF ESTIMATE OF WHAT
SORT OF ALLOCATION OF TIME AND
RESOURCES AND THEN WE CAN GO
FROM THERE.
MR MILLS, I WOULD JUST ADD IN
TO LIKE THE BOTTLENECK IS OFTEN
OUR WORK PLAN AND HOW MANY
ORACY MEETINGS THERE ARE.
RIGHT.
AND JUST SHARE FOR THE PUBLIC
AND FOR OTHER INTERESTED FOLKS
THAT THERE HAVE BEEN A COUPLE
OCCASIONS IN THE PAST TOO,
ESPECIALLY IF IT WAS LIKE
CITIZENS LIKE OTHER CTTEE
LIKE THE ENERGY COMMISSION.
RIGHT.
HAS HAS DONE THE FIRST DRAFT
OF AN ORDINANCE TO MAKE IT
EASIER.
SO WE ARE NOT STARTING FROM
SCRATCH AND IT DOESN&apos;T
NECESSARILY MEAN I MEAN WE CAN
LOOK THE LIGHTING ORDINANCE OR
THAT&apos;S ONE OR EVS, RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; IT DOESN&apos;T MEAN THAT IT IS
NO WORK FOR US BUT PARTICULARLY
IF IT&apos;S CLEARER LIKE I DON&apos;T
KNOW I JUST WANT TO PUT THAT
OUT THERE THAT IF THERE&apos;S SOME
ISSUE THAT SOME OTHER COMMITTEE
DOESN&apos;T THINK WE&apos;RE GETTING TO
FAST ENOUGH LIKE BY ALL MEANS
LIKE SUGGEST WHAT IT IS THAT
YOU WOULD LIKE TO SEE, WE STILL
HAVE TO DO OUR DUTY AND PICK IT
APART BUT THEN WE DON&apos;T WE&apos;RE
NOT STARTING FROM A BLANK PAGE
AND FOR INTERESTED COMMISSION
MEMBERS IN THE PAST SOME OF US
HAVE TAKEN OFF OUR COMMISSIONER
HAT BUT USED OUR COMMISSION
EXPERTIZE TO HELP FACILITATE
THOSE AMENDMENTS SO THAT WHEN
THEY GET TO OUR TABLE IT&apos;S THE
THEY&apos;VE ALREADY HAD A PLANNING
COMMISSIONER KIND OF LOOK AT IT
TO KNOW KIND OF YOU KNOW, NOT
EVERYBODY KNOWS HOW TO READ THE
UDC AND HOW TO WRITE THINGS FOR
THE UDC.
SO ANYWAY, I JUST THAT&apos;S IN
CASE THE COLOR IS STILL
LISTENING.
THAT&apos;S ANOTHER AVENUE.
AND FOR ANYBODY ELSE WHO&apos;S
STILL LISTENING AT THIS HOUR,
MR LOOK LIKE YOU WANTED TO SAY
SOMETHING.
AM I MISREADING WHAT I&apos;M
GETTING?
&gt;&gt; I GUESS I HAVE A QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; AT ONE POINT THERE WAS A
GROUP THAT WAS DESIGNATED TO BE
ABLE TO LOOK TO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING THAT WAS ONE OF OUR
SUBGROUPS.
IS THAT STILL A THING?
AH NO NO OK NOT A THING ALREADY
.
I HAVE ONE OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS PIECE WHICH
IS JOHN MIRSKY EMAILED THE
WHOLE GROUP ABOUT AN EXPERT.
IT CAME AND PRESENTED THE
ENERGY COMMISSION AND IT IS
VERY WORTH WATCHING.
I JUST YOU KNOW, SPEED IT UP TO
ONE POINT FIVE.
YOU CAN GET THROUGH PRETTY FAST
AND HE HAD A LOT OF REALLY,
REALLY INTERESTING THINGS TO
SAY THAT I THINK WOULD BE
HELPFUL FOR US AS WE MOVE
FORWARD.
WE HAD THE THE LUCK TODAY
OF HAVING SOMEBODY WHO JUST
ALREADY THOUGHT ABOUT ALL THAT
STUFF BUT THERE I I FOUND IT
VERY HELPFUL SO I JUST WANTED
TO PASS THAT ALONG TO EVERYBODY
TO OK, I THINK WE ARE ON TO
ADJOURNMENT.
EVERYBODY SAYS I THINK THE